
[Illustration: RABBIT EN CASSEROLE]




                              HOW TO COOK
                                   IN
                            CASSEROLE DISHES


                                   BY

                       MARION HARRIS NEIL, M.C.A.

                     Formerly Cookery Editor, ‘The
                    Ladies’ Home Journal’; Author of
                  ‘Candies and Bonbons and How to Make
                    Them’; ‘Canning, Preserving, and
                   Pickling’; ‘The Thrift Cook Book’;
                        ‘Salads, Sandwiches, and
                      Chafing-Dish Recipes’; etc.


                      LONDON: 38 Soho Square, W. 1
                       W. & R. CHAMBERS, LIMITED
                       EDINBURGH: 339 High Street




                                 NOTES


  In place of “whole peppers” read “peppercorns.”

  In place of “okra” read “canned okra or diced vegetable marrow.”

  In place of “squabs” read “pigeons.”

  In place of “corn-starch” read “corn-flour.”

  In place of “pumpkin” read “canned pumpkin.”

  In place of “string-beans” read “French beans.”


                       Printed in Great Britain.
             W. & R. CHAMBERS, LTD., LONDON and EDINBURGH.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                CONTENTS


                                                  PAGE
                  HOW TO COOK IN CASSEROLE DISHES    9

                  SOUP RECIPES                      17

                  FISH RECIPES                      30

                  POULTRY AND GAME RECIPES          44

                  MEAT RECIPES                      54

                  COLD MEAT RECIPES                 70

                  VEGETABLE RECIPES                 79

                  SALAD RECIPES                     95

                  PUDDING RECIPES                  103

                  INVALID RECIPES                  127

                  CHEESE RECIPES                   137

                  EGG RECIPES                      147

                  SAUCE RECIPES                    159

                  CAKE AND BREAD RECIPES           170

                  PICKLE RECIPES                   181

                  PRESERVE RECIPES                 193

                  MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES            202

                  INDEX                            212




                             ILLUSTRATIONS


                                                    PAGE
                RABBIT EN CASSEROLE       _Frontispiece_

                SOUP EN MARMITE                       17

                HADDOCK AND MACARONI                  32

                LOBSTER NEWBURG                       40

                RAGOUT OF DUCK                        41

                VEAL AND HAM PIE                      56

                BEEF AND SAUSAGES                     57

                GROUP OF CASSEROLES                   65

                BAKED BEANS                           80

                CURRIED VEGETABLES                    88

                MUSHROOMS AU GRATIN                   89

                AMERICAN SALAD                        97

                BAKED APPLES                         105

                FRENCH PUDDING                       112

                ASSORTED SMALL CASSEROLES            152

                EGG AND POTATO PIE                   153




                    HOW TO COOK IN CASSEROLE DISHES

                    “_Some hae meat and canna eat,
                    An’ some wad eat that want it,
                    But we hae meat an’ we can eat,
                    Sae let the Lord be thankit._”


There is no doubt that the fashion of cooking in casseroles or
earthenware dishes has come to stay in this country; and it is hardly a
matter of surprise when the advantages of this form of cookery are
really understood, whether it be actual casserole cookery, so called, or
cookery in fireproof utensils.

Cooking “en casserole” is a term which signifies dishes cooked and
served in the same earthenware pot or utensil, though, as every one
knows, the original French word is the generic name for a stewpan or a
saucepan.

The old idea of a casserole was some preparation of chopped fish, flesh,
or vegetables enveloped in a crust of cooked rice, macaroni, or potato.
Properly speaking, however, a casserole is a dish, the material for
which in many instances is first prepared in the sauté or frying-pan and
then transferred to the earthenware pan to finish cooking by a long,
slow process which develops the true flavors of the food being cooked.

The sooner the casserole utensil becomes an indispensable part of our
kitchen outfit the better, for it makes in every way for
economy,—economy of materials, time, and labor,—as materials often too
tough for ordinary cooking may by this means be served in a nutritious
and tender condition. When casserole cookery is thoroughly understood,
many combinations of food and many inexpensive viands will be put to use
and very palatable results obtained.

Casseroles nowadays take on all shapes and sizes, from the dainty
individual dishes up to a size sufficient for serving a large number of
persons.

Of late years the prices of these utensils have been reduced so greatly
that they are within the reach of the most modest housewife’s
pocketbook, and then at the same time the actual pots and fireproof
dishes have been improved enormously in quality.

Every kind of utensil can be had in this ware nowadays, and people are
realizing how delicious food cooked in this way is.

They may be bought at all the reliable house-furnishing stores.
Ornamental effects in brown, green, blue, red, white, or yellow
stoneware add to the appearance of the breakfast, luncheon, or dinner
table. No one attempts to deny that the eye has much to do with the
palate, and that a dish served in an attractive form is likely to prove
much more pleasing to the taste than a carelessly offered one. The
holders in which the casseroles are placed when removed from the oven
and taken to the table are made of silver, nickel, brass, copper, and
wrought iron, and are examples of genuine artistic merit.

For those who do not wish the extra expense of the metal holder a
platter or tray will answer the purpose, which is simply to keep the hot
casserole from coming in contact with the table or table mats and
scorching them. The adaptability of a stoneware cooking utensil deserves
to be more fully known, when it will be more thoroughly appreciated.

For braising, pot roasting, as well as stewing, which are slow cooking
processes, the casserole has proved its superiority over the metal pans
again and again. It gives its best and almost exclusive service in the
baking oven, for poultry done in pot roasting fashion or for stewing
fruit, and other articles which require to be cooked slowly under close
cover. There are few cooks who do not know that the application of a
moderate, even heat for certain food materials produces far better
results than if quick heat is applied. For such cases the use of
earthenware cooking utensils is to be strongly recommended, because by
their aid an application of heat, such as will insure gentle simmering,
steaming, or baking, is assured.

The casserole may be regarded as a labor-saving device, taking the place
of a half-dozen pots and pans in the kitchen.


             SOME COMMENDABLE FEATURES OF CASSEROLE DISHES

(1) The initial cost of the utensils is very low, and if proper care is
bestowed on them they may last as long as metal pans.

(2) All risk of metallic contamination is avoided. The ingredients may
be put together in a casserole and allowed to stand for hours in it
before cooking without spoiling in the very least degree. Its lining
cannot scale, and in cooking the contents cannot become tainted or
discolored.

(3) The ornamental appearance of casserole dishes simplifies the
practice of serving the viands at table in the vessels in which they
were cooked, so great a desideratum in cases where the prosperity of a
dish depends upon its hot service. The troublesome process of re-dishing
can in most cases be dispensed with. This is convenient as well as
economical.

(4) Casseroles are readily cleaned on account of their perfectly hard
and unbroken surfaces. It can easily be seen when casseroles are clean.
They are sanitary, and food prepared in them is pure and sweet. They do
not retain any taste whatever from previous cooking. Therefore the same
utensils can be used for the most varying preparations.

(5) The cooking in casserole dishes is slow but thorough, and all the
nutritious elements in the viands are preserved in their integrity. The
cover must fit snugly to each utensil, to prevent too rapid escaping of
the aromas and flavors. Sometimes a strip of cloth, spread with a soft
paste of flour and water or mashed potatoes, is pressed over the joining
of the casserole and the cover, and the heat of the oven finishes the
sealing of the dish. When the dish is ready to serve, the strip of cloth
and paste is removed.

(6) The use of a casserole is economical. The actual cooking is effected
slowly and evenly, consequently less fuel is used in cooking. Once the
materials have been started on their culinary way they require little
attention. A casserole dish may be placed in the oven or on the stove;
it may be used for steamed food or as a chafing dish.

(7) The cleanliness and wholesomeness of a casserole make it especially
valuable in preparing food for the invalid and the convalescent.

(8) In the cooking of fruits and vegetables, especially for canning, the
casserole is invaluable. The earthenware is not attacked by fruit acids,
therefore cannot give rise to any noxious product.

(9) Any dish which requires slow, gentle cooking can be prepared in a
casserole, and hash, curry, and other réchauffés are far superior in
flavor when recooked in earthenware than in metal. The stew, or whatever
it is, may be left to get cold in the casserole. The color would be
spoiled if this were done with an ordinary saucepan.

(10) The flavor of the food cooked is brought out best when it is
prepared in an earthenware dish.

(11) The fact that a casserole is a non-conductor of heat makes it more
economical to use than other ware.

(12) The amount of water, liquid, or stock in which the article is to be
cooked should be relatively small, and, in general, seasoned. For stews,
ragouts, etc., it is better to cook the meat in a nicely seasoned sauce,
that it may absorb the flavor in cooking. The time, in general, should
be multiplied by two; that is, if the recipe calls for thirty minutes;
cook in the casserole in the oven for about sixty minutes. The heat of
the oven should be about 212 degrees Fahrenheit or less, that the liquid
in the casserole may simmer, not boil.

When vegetables are to be cooked—and nearly all vegetables are
wonderfully better when cooked by this method—a small amount of water,
in many cases seasoned stock, should be used.

(13) Left-overs, salads, and small entrées of all kinds may be served in
a most attractive manner in ramequins or individual casseroles.

(14) The crowning advantage of casserole cooking, especially in a family
where for one cause or another meals are apt to be irregular, is that
the dish can be kept waiting for a considerable time without
deterioration. Food can be left in a casserole with perfect safety as
long as desired.


                    HOW TO CARE FOR CASSEROLE DISHES

The cook who has been accustomed to the use of iron, granite, copper,
aluminum, or other metal cooking utensils will necessarily have
something to learn when adopting earthenware. It must be realized that
it is a method of slow cookery, and cannot be hurried. Before being used
for the first time the vessels should be soaked in cold water for some
hours, as this will go far toward saving them from cracking on their
first exposure to heat. There need be little risk of this if the heat be
applied gradually, and this principle should always be observed;
although as the utensils become seasoned by constant use the risk of
accident is materially lessened. In many places garlic is considered
indispensable, the new dishes being rubbed with a clove of it, “to
prevent their cracking.” Never place the vessels on the stove or within
the oven without either water or fat in them. Never put a casserole
roughly on a metal surface, especially if it is full or partly full.

Sudden alternations of temperature should be avoided, that is to say,
the casserole should not be taken off the range or out of the oven and
placed in cold water or on the wet sink, and vice versâ. A fierce heat
is never needed or desirable.

If the cooking is done on an ordinary coal range the fire holes should
be kept closed and the heat received through the top lids; if a gas
range be employed, the gas jets should be kept low, and not allowed to
flare round the utensil. When cooking is being done on the top of the
range with wood, coal, gas, or oil as the fuel, an asbestos mat placed
underneath will modify the heat. The asbestos mat may also be used in
the oven. If the heat must be intense for other food in progress of
cooking at the same time as an earthenware dish is in the oven, the heat
may be controlled by placing the casserole in a pan of hot water which
can be lowered in temperature by occasional supplies of cold water added
to the hot water.

The adoption of these simple precautions will make easy the use of
earthenware utensils. Marmites, ramequins, cocottes, au gratin dishes,
and soufflé cases all come under the head of casseroles.

[Illustration: SOUP EN MARMITE]




                              SOUP RECIPES

             “_Give zest and flavor to a mess of pottage_”


                    BROWN SOUP WITH FORCEMEAT BALLS

 ¾ lb. lean beef
 1 carrot
 2 onions
 1 teaspoonful whole peppers
 1 teaspoonful salt
 Few sprigs parsley
 2 stalks celery
 3 pints (6 cups) water
 1 turnip
 1 tablespoonful mushroom ketchup
 4 cloves
 1 teaspoonful powdered herbs
 2 tablespoonfuls (1½ ozs.) butter
 2 tablespoonfuls (1½ ozs.) flour
 1 teaspoonful kitchen bouquet
 Some forcemeat balls

Melt the butter in a large marmite, let it get brown, then brown in it
the onions, cut in rings; remove the onions from the pot, and brown the
flour in the butter; then add the water and the kitchen bouquet, stir
till smooth, allow this to boil, put back the onions, and add the
vegetables cut into neat pieces, the meat cut up into small pieces, and
the seasoning; simmer for one and a half hours, remove the meat, and rub
through a sieve as much of the vegetables with the soup as possible.

Put the soup back into the marmite with the meat and some forcemeat
balls (made as undernoted); simmer again for fifteen minutes, skim off
the fat if necessary, and serve in small fireproof dishes.


                            FORCEMEAT BALLS

 4 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs
 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
 ½ teaspoonful grated lemon rind
 1 egg
 1½ tablespoonfuls chopped suet
 ½ teaspoonful powdered herbs
 Seasoning of salt and pepper
 A pinch powdered mace

Beat up the egg and mix in the above ingredients, form into tiny balls,
roll in flour, and add to the soup.


                              BROWN STOCK

 4 lbs. shin of beef
 3 cloves
 2 quarts (8 cups) water
 2 stalks celery
 1 bay leaf
 1 blade mace
 1 large carrot
 2 onions, browned
 1 bunch sweet herbs
 1 teaspoonful whole peppers
 1 teaspoonful salt
 Some poultry or game bones
 3 sprigs parsley

Wipe the meat and cut it into small square pieces. Break up the bones
and remove the marrow. Put the bones and the meat into a large
casserole, cover with the water, and bring slowly to boiling point; skim
thoroughly, then add all the other ingredients, and simmer for four
hours; then strain, and when cold remove the fat.

The bones may be boiled down again for cheaper stock.

To brown the onions place them with the skin on in a tin and set in the
oven until brown.


                    CHEESE SOUP WITH SAVORY CUSTARD

 2 heaping tablespoonfuls grated cheese
 1 quart (4 cups) white stock
 ¼ pint (½ cup) cream
 2 egg yolks
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 blade mace
 1 teaspoonful salt
 1 onion
 1 carrot
 1 teaspoonful whole peppers
 1 stalk celery
 Bunch sweet herbs
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 Few sprigs parsley
 Savory custard

Pare and slice the vegetables and fry them in the butter with the herbs,
mace, and whole peppers for five minutes, then add the flour and the
stock; simmer for one hour, rub through a sieve; mix together the egg
yolks, cream, and grated cheese, add to the soup and reheat, taking care
that it does not boil.

Meanwhile prepare a savory custard as follows: Put half a cupful of
stock and one tablespoonful of grated cheese into a small saucepan and
bring to boiling point. Beat up two eggs with salt and pepper to taste,
strain the stock to them, pour into one or two small buttered molds,
stand in a pan of hot water, allowing the water to come within half an
inch of the top of the molds; place in the oven, and when set turn out
and allow to cool, cut into dice, divide into petites marmites, and pour
over the soup.


                         OYSTER OR CLAM BISQUE

 3 dozen clams
 1 onion
 1 carrot
 1 bay leaf
 2 sprigs parsley
 1 quart (4 cups) fish stock
 Salt and pepper
 Some cream
 1 tablespoonful butter
 1 tablespoonful flour
 1 gill (½ cup) Madeira wine

Put the clams into a casserole, slice the onion and the carrot, and add
them with the bay leaf, parsley, and stock.

Simmer for one and a half hours, then strain; return to the casserole
and add the needed salt and pepper.

Blend the butter and flour together and add them with enough cream to
make two pints. Simmer for five minutes and add the wine when serving.


                          CREAM OF BARLEY SOUP

 2 ozs. (¼ cup) fine barley
 2 sliced onions
 2 sliced carrots
 1 small bay leaf
 Few sprigs parsley
 2 quarts (8 cups) veal or chicken stock
 ½ pint (1 cup) hot milk
 2 egg yolks
 1 glass sherry wine
 ½ pint (1 cup) boiled green peas
 Salt and pepper to taste

Put the stock into a fireproof pot, add the barley, onions, carrots, bay
leaf and parsley and simmer for three hours.

When almost ready, add the yolks of the eggs mixed with the milk, wine,
and seasonings. Press through a sieve and reheat.

Divide the hot peas into earthenware handled cups, pour over the soup,
and serve very hot.


                         CREAM OF SALSIFY SOUP

 4 roots salsify
 2 pints (4 cups) milk
 1 teaspoonful onion juice
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) butter
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) flour
 2 eggs
 Salt and pepper to taste
 A few chopped pistachio nuts
 Water
 ½ pint (1 cup) cream

Clean the salsify, throwing at once into cold water to prevent their
turning dark. Put them into an earthenware dish with water to well cover
and cook till very tender, then rub through a sieve.

Return to the casserole and add to the pulp two cupfuls of the milk,
onion juice, chopped parsley, salt and pepper to season.

Have ready the remaining milk, thickened with the butter and the flour
rubbed together, add to the salsify, and heat thoroughly.

Just before serving stir in the beaten yolks of the eggs mixed with the
cream.

Pour into hot marmites. Have ready the stiffly beaten whites of the
eggs, put a spoonful of the egg on the top of each marmite, and sprinkle
over the chopped pistachio nuts.

Serve hot.


                               FISH SOUP

 1 lb. haddock or flounder
 Some fish bones or skin
 2 stalks celery
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 1 bay leaf
 1 large onion
 2 quarts (8 cups) water or stock
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 Salt and pepper to taste

Skin and fillet the fish. Put the fish bones, skin, and any other fish
trimmings into an earthenware pot with the stock or water and the salt;
bring to the boil and skim well, add the bay leaf, the onion, and celery
cut into small pieces; simmer for one and a half hours; then strain.
Melt the butter in the pan, add the flour, stir till smooth, then add
the milk; allow this to boil for four minutes, add the soup, the
parsley, and the fish cut into small pieces; season nicely, simmer for
fifteen minutes, and serve hot.


                               FRUIT SOUP

 1 pint (2 cups) fruit juice
 2 quarts (8 cups) water
 6 cloves
 3 inches cinnamon stick
 Peel of 1 orange
 Peel of 1 lemon
 4 bitter almonds
 ¼ lb. (½ cup) tapioca
 3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 ozs.) sugar
 1 teaspoonful salt

Put one quart of the water into a fireproof utensil, add the cloves,
cinnamon, lemon and orange peels, and the bitter almonds.

Allow to remain for one hour, then simmer for fifteen minutes.

Strain and return to the pan, add the tapioca and the remainder of the
water, and simmer until clear; then add the sugar, salt, and fruit
juice.

Serve hot.

Cherry, strawberry, currant, blackberry, or grape juice may be used for
fruit soups.


                               GUMBO SOUP

 1 quart okra
 1 chicken
 2 onions
 1 garlic clove
 1 tablespoonful flour
 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter
 1 quart tomatoes
 Salt and pepper
 ½ lb. sliced ham
 ¼ lb. chopped bacon
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 1 head celery
 3 pints (6 cups) strained stock
 1 pint (2 cups) plain boiled rice

Chop the onions and the garlic, roll them in the flour, then brown them
in the butter, and add the tomatoes. Cut the heads off the okra, split
each four times and cut into dice, add it to the tomatoes in the
casserole, add the parsley, salt and pepper, and the celery, bacon, and
ham chopped; brown all together.

Cut up the chicken and fry it for a few minutes, then add it with the
stock, and simmer until thick.

Serve with plain boiled rice. One pint of cooked crab meat, cooked
shrimps, or oysters, may be added with the chicken if liked.


                              LENTIL SOUP

 ½ lb. (1 cup) lentils
 3 stalks celery
 4 springs parsley
 1 onion
 1 carrot
 1 turnip
 1 crust stale bread
 1 bay leaf
 1 teaspoonful whole peppers
 1 blade mace
 1 teaspoonful salt
 ¼ pint (½ cup) cream
 3 pints (6 cups) water
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour

Wash the lentils and put them to soak in cold water overnight. In the
morning drain them and put them into an earthenware pan with the water,
bring slowly to the boil, and skim well; then add the vegetables cut
into small pieces, the mace, bay leaf, whole peppers, and bread, simmer
for one and a half hours. Strain the soup, rubbing as much of the pulp
through the sieve as possible.

Melt the butter in the pan, stir in the flour, add the milk, and boil
for four minutes. Add the soup, and season it nicely. Divide the cream
into earthenware cups and pour the soup over it.


                            OYSTER BOUILLON

 2 quarts oysters
 1 quart (4 cups) white stock
 1 onion
 1 celery stalk
 Salt and pepper
 Some whipped cream

Put the oysters into a casserole, add the white stock, the onion and
celery chopped, and the salt and pepper.

Simmer gently for one hour. Strain the soup, reheat it, and serve in
earthenware bouillon cups with a tablespoonful of whipped cream on the
top of each.


                              POTATO PURÉE

 12 medium sized potatoes
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) butter
 Salt and pepper
 1 quart (4 cups) white stock
 1 pint (2 cups) cream
 2 tablespoonfuls flour
 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter
 1 teaspoonful onion juice

Boil the potatoes in their skins till tender, then cool and peel them.
Cut them into quarters and put them into an earthenware pan with the two
ounces of butter to brown just a very little in places.

Season with the salt and pepper, then add the stock, cream, and the
onion juice.

Allow to boil up, and strain through a sieve; return the purée to the
pan and stir into it the melted butter mixed with the flour.

Boil for three minutes and serve hot.


                              SCOTCH BROTH

 2 lbs. mutton (neck)
 ½ lb. (1 cup) barley
 ½ pint (1 cup) peas
 1 carrot
 1 turnip
 1 teaspoonful sugar
 3 onions or leeks
 1 teaspoonful dripping
 1 small cabbage
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 4 quarts (16 cups) water or stock
 Salt and pepper to taste

Prepare the vegetables and cut them into small pieces. Put the water or
stock into a large earthenware pan, and when it boils, add the meat and
the barley. Boil up, skimming frequently, add the vegetables, and then
simmer for three hours.

Now stir in one extra carrot grated, the salt and pepper, sugar and
dripping. Simmer again for thirty minutes.

Add the parsley and the broth is ready to serve.

The mutton may be served separately with potatoes.


                             SHRIMP CHOWDER

 3 cupfuls picked shrimps
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) butter
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) flour
 1 blade mace
 ¼ cupful salt pork fat cut in cubes
 1 chopped onion
 Salt and red pepper to season
 2 pints (4 cups) milk
 ½ pint (1 cup) hot cream

Cook the onion in the salt pork fat. Melt the butter in a casserole,
stir in the flour and seasoning, then add the milk very gradually and
stir till boiling, allow to cook for five minutes, then add the shrimps
and cook for twenty-five minutes; add the strained salt pork fat, the
hot cream, and serve hot.


                   SOUP TO SERVE IN PETITES MARMITES

 4 lbs. beef from the round
 1 fowl weighing 3 lbs.
 8 inches beef marrow bone
 6 pints (12 cups) cold water
 1 large onion
 2 cloves
 1 large carrot
 1 turnip
 4 stalks celery
 Some toasted bread
 Salt
 1 bay leaf
 1 blade mace
 12 whole peppers

Remove the marrow from the bone. Saw the bone into inch lengths and put
it into a large stoneware soup pot with the beef and the water.

Let it come slowly to boiling point, remove the scum, and set on a cool
part of the stove to simmer for half an hour. Draw, truss, and roast the
fowl for twenty minutes, then, when well browned, put it into the soup
pot, adding the giblets well cleaned. Remove the beef and the chicken as
soon as they are tender. Keep hot a part of the beef and a part of the
breast of the chicken to serve in the petites marmites.

The remainder can be used for other dishes. Press the cloves into the
onion and add it to the soup with the bay leaf, mace, whole peppers,
carrot, turnip, and celery, cleansed and pared, and cut into neat
pieces. Allow to simmer until the vegetables are tender. Remove the fat
and strain the soup; add salt to taste and reheat it. Into each small
soup pot put two pieces each of chicken, beef, and vegetables, and pour
over them the soup. Place on the covers and serve with small pieces of
toasted bread.


                             VEGETABLE SOUP

 2 lbs. lean beef or mutton
 4 onions
 2 turnips
 4 carrots
 5 skinned tomatoes
 6 potatoes
 2 parsnips
 1 teaspoonful white pepper
 1 tablespoonful salt
 3 stalks celery
 3 quarts (12 cups) cold water

Cut the meat into small, neat slices; put it into a deep earthenware
pan, sprinkle in the salt and pepper; add the tomatoes, sliced, the
other vegetables all pared or scraped and cut into neat pieces, and the
water. Cover tightly and cook slowly in the oven for two and a half
hours.

If too thick, add a little boiling water before serving.


                              WHITE STOCK

 4 lbs. shin of veal
 1 onion
 1 blade mace
 2 stalks celery
 1 fowl
 2 quarts (8 cups) water
 1 teaspoonful white whole peppers
 1 teaspoonful salt
 Some bones

Wipe the meat and cut it up into small pieces; and put it into a large
marmite or casserole; add the bones and the water and bring slowly to
boiling point; skim thoroughly, add the other ingredients, and simmer
for four hours; strain through a fine sieve, and when cold remove the
fat.

The fowl should be cleaned and added with the meat.

The bones may be boiled again for cheaper stock.




                              FISH RECIPES

                  “_Why, then, the world’s mine oyster
                  Which I with sword will open._”


                             BAKED OYSTERS

 1 quart oysters
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) butter
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 ½ pint (1 cup) cream
 1 heaping tablespoonful grated cheese
 A little melted butter
 Some fine bread crumbs
 1 tablespoonful white wine
 Salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste

Scald the oysters in their liquor, and put them aside to cool; then
divide each oyster into four pieces.

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, then add gradually the milk and
cream; stir until thickened, and add the seasonings, wine, and cheese.
Butter sufficient octagon ramequins, put in a layer of the oysters, fill
up with the sauce, pour a little melted butter over each, sprinkle some
bread crumbs on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes.


                            COD À LA GARONNE

 2 slices cod
 1 garlic clove
 4 tablespoonfuls olive oil
 1 tablespoonful chopped capers
 3 boned and chopped anchovies
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 A few bread crumbs
 Salt and paprika to taste

Rub a shallow fireproof dish with a cut clove of garlic, then lay in the
fish and add the oil.

Bake in the oven, and when three parts cooked take out and sprinkle in
the capers, anchovies, parsley, bread crumbs, salt, and paprika; divide
the butter into tiny pieces, lay it on the top, and return it to the
oven to brown and to finish cooking.

Serve hot in the casserole.


                       COLD MACKEREL, VINAIGRETTE

 1 mackerel
 1 bunch parsley
 1 slice lemon
 6 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar
 2 teaspoonfuls made mustard
 1 teaspoonful salt
 12 tablespoonfuls olive oil
 1 teaspoonful chopped shallots
 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
 1 tablespoonful chopped gherkins and capers

Clean the mackerel, leaving the head on, wrap it in a piece of
cheesecloth, and boil in boiling salted water until tender.

The water should contain a little vinegar. Put the tarragon vinegar into
a basin, add the mustard, salt, olive oil, parsley, shallots, gherkins,
and capers. Remove the cloth from the fish, then lay the mackerel in an
earthenware dish, pour the sauce over it and let it marinate thoroughly.
It should be put into the refrigerator as soon as cool.

Serve cold in a bed of parsley garnished with slices of lemon.


                            CRAB À LA CARMEN

 1 good-sized crab
 2 tablespoonfuls olive oil
 1 chopped shallot
 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs
 2 tablespoonfuls chopped cooked chicken
 1 teaspoonful tarragon vinegar
 1 tablespoonful cream
 3 tablespoonfuls fish stock
 ½ pint (1 cup) white sauce
 2 hard cooked egg yolks
 Salt and pepper to taste

Boil the crab, then remove the meat from it. Put the oil into a
casserole, add the crab meat, the shallot, and parsley; stir over the
fire until quite hot; then add the bread crumbs, vinegar, chicken,
cream, stock, and seasonings; fill some flange ramequins very full with
the mixture, heaping them in the center; pour over each some of the
white sauce, and sprinkle over the top the sieved hard cooked yolks of
eggs.

Stand them in a pan containing a little boiling water on the stove until
thoroughly hot, then serve.

[Illustration: HADDOCK AND MACARONI]


                              CURRIED FISH

 1½ lbs. cooked fish
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 2 large onions
 1 large apple
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) rice flour
 1 tablespoonful curry powder
 1 tablespoonful chutney
 1 lemon
 1 teaspoonful salt
 1½ pints (3 cups) fish stock
 ½ lb. (1 cup) boiled rice
 ½ cupful shrimps
 2 hard cooked eggs

Free the fish from skin and bones. Melt the butter in a fireproof dish,
then put in the apple and the onion cut into small pieces, fry together
until a nice brown color, then stir in the rice flour, curry powder,
chutney, the strained juice of the lemon, salt, and stock; simmer for
fifty minutes, then add the fish.

Arrange the hot boiled rice around a casserole, turn the curry into the
center; garnish with the shrimps made hot in a little cream and quarters
of the hard cooked eggs.

Serve very hot.


                             FINNAN HADDIE

 1 medium sized finnan haddie
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) butter
 Salt and pepper

Select a well-cured medium sized fish. If not well cured it will
probably be tasteless and flabby. Wash it well, trim off the fins, the
tail, and the two bones at the head.

Lay it in a buttered casserole, sprinkle with a little salt and pepper,
pour in enough boiling water to cover it, and allow it to simmer for ten
minutes.

Drain it from the water, return it to the casserole with the butter, and
cook it for ten minutes in the oven.

See that it is thoroughly cooked, but not hardened.


                              FISH SOUFFLÉ

 ½ lb. cooked chopped fish
 6 boiled potatoes
 3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 ozs.) butter
 1 teaspoonful anchovy extract
 1 teaspoonful made mustard
 ¼ pint (½ cup) thick cream
 1 oz. (½ cup) bread crumbs
 3 tablespoonfuls (1 oz.) chopped suet
 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
 5 egg whites
 A few browned bread crumbs
 Salt and paprika to taste

Boil the potatoes and rub them through a sieve while they are hot; mix
with them the butter, salt, paprika, anchovy extract, mustard, cream,
fish, white bread crumbs, suet, parsley, and the whites of eggs beaten
stiffly.

Mix carefully and turn into a well-buttered fireproof soufflé dish;
sprinkle the top of the soufflé with the browned bread crumbs and here
and there put a little bit of butter; place it on a baking tin and cook
in a moderate oven for about forty minutes.

Serve at once.


                           FLOUNDER AU GRATIN

 1 large flounder
 2 chopped shallots
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 ¼ pint (½ cup) white wine
 ½ cupful bread crumbs
 Salt and pepper

Clean and skin the fish. Salt and pepper both sides of the flounder,
then lay it in a fireproof au gratin dish, sprinkle in the shallots and
the parsley; add the butter divided into small pieces, the wine, and the
layer of bread crumbs.

Let it cook in the oven for about half an hour.


                          HADDOCK AND MACARONI

 1 lb. boiled haddock
 ½ pint (1 cup) white sauce
 ¼ lb. macaroni
 2 small skinned tomatoes
 Seasoning of salt and pepper
 3 pickled gherkins
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter

Break the macaroni in pieces from one to one and a half inches long, put
it into a pan of fast boiling, salted water, add the butter, and boil
until it is tender without being in the least mashed; drain and wash the
macaroni in a little hot water.

Heat the sauce in a fireproof dish, stir in the fish without breaking
the flakes, and season it nicely with salt and pepper.

Arrange a border of the hot macaroni around a hot casserole, pile the
fish and sauce in the middle.

Cut the tomatoes in quarters; cook them for a few minutes on a buttered
baking tin, then arrange them round the fish. Cut the gherkins into
shreds and place them in small heaps on the macaroni.

Heat in the oven for a few moments and serve hot.


                           HADDOCK AU GRATIN

 1 haddock weighing 4 lbs.
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 Salt and pepper
 2 lemons
 4 ozs. (½ cup) melted butter
 ½ cupful grated Parmesan cheese
 2 tablespoonfuls buttered bread crumbs
 1 tablespoonful potato flour
 1 gill (½ cup) thick cream

Boil the haddock in boiling salted water with the two ounces of butter,
seasoning of salt and pepper, and the strained juice of one lemon.

When it is ready remove the skin, put the fish into a buttered gratin
dish, pour over it the melted butter, and sprinkle over it a little red
pepper and lemon juice.

Cover it with the cheese and the buttered bread crumbs and put in a hot
oven to brown.

Mix the potato flour with the cream, make hot, and pour over the fish
just before sending to table.

Garnish with a thinly sliced lemon.


                            HALIBUT TIMBALE

 1½ lbs. fresh halibut
 1 teaspoonful salt
 A few grains red pepper
 1 gill (½ cup) whipping cream
 5 egg whites
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley

Put the fish through a meat-chopper, add to it the parsley, salt, red
pepper, whipped cream, and the whites of eggs stiffly beaten.

Mix carefully and turn into a well-buttered earthenware mold, cover, and
steam steadily for half an hour.

Serve with egg sauce.


                            LOBSTER NEWBURG

 1 lobster
 ½ pint (1 cup) cream
 3 egg yolks
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 wineglassful sherry wine
 Salt and red pepper to taste

Take the meat from a boiled lobster and cut it into dice; sauté it in
the butter, then add the seasonings, sherry wine, and the yolks of eggs
mixed with the cream.

Stir until the mixture begins to thicken, then remove it from the fire
and serve at once in hot ramequins.


                         MACKEREL WITH TOMATOES

 1 medium sized mackerel
 1 lb. skinned tomatoes
 1 wineglassful sherry wine
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 1 slice onion
 Juice ½ lemon
 ½ pint (1 cup) stock
 1 teaspoonful powdered herbs
 ½ cupful bread crumbs
 Salt and pepper
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley

Cook the mackerel in the oven with the stock, sherry wine, herbs, lemon
juice, and onion, cover with a buttered paper; when cooked, remove the
skin, split the fish open, and remove the bones; butter a fireproof
dish, lay in a layer of sliced tomatoes, a little salt and pepper, then
a layer of fish and some tiny pieces of butter, repeat this until the
fish is used; finally put a layer of sliced tomatoes on the top; pour
over the stock in which the fish was cooked, cover with bread crumbs and
some small pieces of butter, and cook in a moderate oven for twenty
minutes; sprinkle the parsley over the top and serve at once.


                              OYSTER CURRY

 1 quart oysters
 ½ pint (1 cup) tomatoes
 3 tablespoonfuls curry powder
 ½ pint (1 cup) beef stock
 1 apple
 2 tablespoonfuls flour
 1 teaspoonful salt
 1 cupful plain boiled rice
 2 tablespoonfuls butter
 1 Spanish onion

Chop the onion and brown it in one tablespoonful of the butter in a
casserole or earthenware dish, add the curry powder, the remaining
tablespoonful of butter, the apple chopped, and the stock.

Simmer slowly for half an hour.

Put the oysters, their liquor, and the tomatoes into another pan over
the fire. When the edges of the oysters begin to ruffle put the two
mixtures together.

Add the salt, and thicken with the flour moistened with a little cold
water. Boil for five minutes stirring constantly.

Serve with the hot plain boiled rice.


                         SCALLOPS EN CASSEROLE

 18 scallops
 ½ pint (1 cup) white stock
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 ¼ pint (½ cup) cream
 1 small onion
 2 shallots
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 3 egg yolks
 3 chopped mushrooms
 Some small pieces puff pastry
 Salt, pepper, and red pepper to taste

Put the scallops and mushrooms into a casserole with one tablespoonful
of the butter, cover, and let cook for ten minutes.

Peel and chop finely the onion and shallots, blanch them in water, and
drain.

Put them into an earthenware pan with the remainder of the butter and
cook until a light brown color; stir in the flour, mix for a few minutes
over the fire, add the stock and scallop liquor, simmer for fifteen
minutes, stirring in the yolks of eggs one at a time, season with salt,
pepper, and a dust of red pepper, put in the scallops and mushrooms, and
heat but do not boil; mix in the cream just before serving.

Garnish the top with the pieces of pastry.


                              STEWED EELS

 2 or 3 eels
 ½ pint (1 cup) white stock
 2 tablespoonfuls cream
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) flour
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) butter
 ½ teaspoonful whole white peppers
 Seasoning of salt, pepper, and red pepper
 Bunch of parsley
 ¼ teaspoonful lemon juice
 1 small onion
 Blade of mace
 Bunch of sweet herbs

Skin and divide the eels into pieces about two inches long, put them
into a casserole with the stock, sliced onion, herbs, mace, lemon juice,
parsley, and whole peppers. Bring to the boil, skim, and allow to simmer
for twenty minutes; lift out the eels and strain the stock.

Melt the butter in the casserole, stir in the flour, add the liquid from
the fish, the cream, and boil for five minutes, stirring all the time,
then add the seasonings and the eels, allow to heat thoroughly, and
serve.

[Illustration: LOBSTER NEWBURGH]

[Illustration: FOR RAGOUT OF DUCK]


                            STUFFED HERRINGS

 4 large fresh herrings
 1 cupful bread crumbs
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 1 egg
 Salt and pepper to taste

Split the herrings up the back, remove the backbones, lay two herrings
open on a buttered fireproof dish; mix together the bread crumbs,
parsley, salt, pepper, egg well beaten, and one tablespoonful of the
butter; lay this on the split herrings, place the other two on the top,
sandwich fashion; put the remainder of the butter on the top, sprinkle
with bread crumbs, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes.

Serve with parsley sauce.


                             TERRAPIN STEW

 2 terrapins
 4 hard cooked yolks of eggs
 ½ lb. (1 cup) butter
 1 tablespoonful salt
 1 teaspoonful white pepper
 3 tablespoonfuls browned flour
 1 pint (2 cups) cream
 1 wineglassful sherry wine

Encourage the terrapin to move about in lukewarm water for a few
minutes, then plunge head first into a pan of boiling water.

Remove from the water in about five minutes, or as soon as the thin
white skin can be removed from the head and feet, then put back into
fresh boiling water and simmer for forty minutes, or until the upper
shell separates readily from the lower on a slight pressure. Drain, lay
them on their backs, heads from you; then loosen the shells and take
them off. Remove the sand bags, bladders, and the thick part of the
intestines and the gall sacks, which are found embedded in one lobe of
the liver, and throw them away. The meat is separated and the giblets
cut up fine. Place all in a casserole and barely cover with boiling
water. Simmer for half an hour, then add the dressing. Mash the egg
yolks with the butter, then add the salt, pepper, flour, and cream. Stir
until smooth and creamy, then add to the terrapin and simmer for fifteen
minutes, stirring frequently. If too thick, reduce with a little boiling
water. Add the wine and serve very hot.


                          TROUT WITH POTATOES

 1 fresh trout
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 2 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley
 3 large potatoes
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 ¼ pint (½ cup) cream
 Salt and pepper
 1 egg white
 Oyster sauce

Boil the trout in boiling salted water for twenty minutes or until
ready; when cold, bone it and flake it, and lay it in a well-buttered
fireproof dish; bring the milk and parsley to the boil and pour them
over the fish; boil the potatoes, then mash them with the butter, cream,
salt, and pepper, spread them over the fish, smooth the surface, then
mark it in fancy design with a fork; place the casserole in a hot oven
for ten minutes. Remove it from the oven, beat up the white of the egg
stiffly, brush it over the top of the potatoes, and continue to bake for
fifteen minutes. Serve hot with the oyster sauce. The sauce may be
served in an earthenware gravy boat.




                        POULTRY AND GAME RECIPES

                           “O: dainty duck,
                   With wings as swift as meditation”


                       CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE NO. 1

 1 good-sized chicken
 1 lb. sliced bacon
 1 onion
 3 tomatoes
 3 celery stalks
 5 mushrooms
 2 pickled walnuts
 1 bay leaf
 1 pint (2 cups) stock
 1 tablespoonful arrowroot
 Salt and pepper

Singe and draw the chicken, then truss it as for boiling, have ready a
casserole large enough to hold the bird whole; line it with the bacon,
put in the chicken, sprinkle in salt, pepper, and the onion chopped
fine. Then arrange round the chicken the tomatoes skinned, the celery,
mushrooms and walnuts chopped, and the bay leaf; add the stock, place
the casserole in the oven, let it cook gently for one and a half hours,
basting the chicken frequently.

When ready, remove the bay leaf, brown and thicken the gravy with the
arrowroot, leave all the vegetables in the gravy with the chicken, and
serve hot in the casserole.

A turkey may also be prepared in this way.


                       CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE NO. 2

 1 large chicken or turkey
 3 tablespoonfuls olive oil
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) flour
 1½ pints (3 cups) chicken stock
 Salt and pepper to season
 1 tablespoonful kitchen bouquet
 1 cupful chopped oysters

Singe, draw and cut the fowl into neat joints, removing the skin and as
many small bones as possible.

Heat the oil in a frying-pan, lay in a few pieces of chicken at a time,
and fry until the meat looks white on each side. Turn frequently but do
not let them brown.

Take out and drain on paper. Add a little more oil if necessary, until
all the pieces have been cooked. Blend the butter and flour in a
saucepan over the fire: when smooth stir in the stock, and continue
stirring until it cooks for five minutes.

Add the kitchen bouquet and the seasonings. Strain the sauce into a
casserole, add the chicken, arranging the pieces so that they are level
at the top, cover closely with a sheet of buttered paper, and put on the
casserole lid. Cook in a moderate oven for an hour or until ready. About
fifteen minutes before serving uncover and add the oysters scalded and
cut into halves.


                          CHICKENS WITH OLIVES

 2 young chickens
 3 pints (6 cups) water
 1 onion
 Salt and pepper
 3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 ozs.) butter
 2 dozen olives
 1 tablespoonful capers
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) flour

Prepare the chickens and cut them into joints, then put them in a
casserole with the water, salt, pepper, and onion.

Cook slowly till tender. Lift out the pieces of chicken and drain and
dry them, then fry them in the butter till they are brown.

Stir the flour into the casserole, add a pint of the water in which the
chickens were cooked, the olives, chopped, capers, and seasoning of salt
and pepper.

When quite smooth add the chickens and serve when hot.


                       GOOSE DEVILED EN CASSEROLE

 1 goose
 Potato stuffing
 4 tablespoonfuls vinegar
 1 tablespoonful white pepper
 2 tablespoonfuls made mustard

After cleaning the goose and wiping it well with a damp cloth, plunge it
into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil gently for one hour. Take it
from the saucepan, drain well, and wipe it very dry.

Fill the body and neck with potato stuffing, truss and sew up, lay it in
an earthenware pan, and roast in a very hot oven, allowing twenty
minutes to every pound.

Mix the vinegar, pepper, and mustard together, pour them over the goose,
and baste it frequently. An old goose that can be cooked in no other way
may be so dressed, two hours being allowed for the boiling instead of
one hour.

To make the potato stuffing: Cook one chopped onion in a quarter of a
cupful of salt pork cubes until brown, then add two cupfuls of hot
mashed potatoes, salt and pepper to taste, half a teaspoonful of poultry
seasoning, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and one cupful of
cooked sausages cut in pieces. Mix thoroughly, then stuff the goose with
the mixture.


                        GUINEA FOWL EN CASSEROLE

 1 large guinea fowl
 1 onion
 4 tablespoonfuls cream
 A bunch herbs
 2 celery stalks
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) white stock
 1 blade mace
 6 whole peppers
 2 slices carrot
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 Salt and pepper

Draw and truss the guinea fowl; then put it into a casserole with
sufficient hot water to cover, then bring to the boil, and simmer gently
until the bird is cooked. Take it up and let it cool.

Measure half a pint of the water the guinea fowl was boiled in. Put this
into a pan with the milk, add the onion, mace, carrot, herbs, celery,
whole peppers, and the stock; bring slowly to boiling point; then simmer
for ten minutes.

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, then stir in the boiling stock. Cook
slowly for ten minutes, season with salt and pepper, add the cream.

Cut the guinea fowl into neat joints. Put these into a casserole, strain
the sauce over, put it on the fire, and heat up; make quite hot without
boiling.

Serve in the casserole.


                              JUGGED HARE

 1 hare
 1 carrot
 1 onion
 1 turnip
 2 celery stalks
 Small bunch parsley
 Small piece lemon rind
 3 allspices
 1 clove
 1 bay leaf
 Salt and pepper
 Stock
 1 tablespoonful flour
 1 blade mace
 4 tablespoonfuls water
 1 tablespoonful red currant jelly
 1 tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce
 1 tablespoonful mushroom ketchup
 1 tablespoonful lemon juice
 2 wineglassfuls port wine
 12 small forcemeat balls

Skin the hare after taking out the inside, wipe the hare thoroughly, but
do not wash it, cut it into neat joints, dust a little flour over them,
and fry them in smoking hot fat till browned. Drain them and put them
into an earthenware jar with the vegetables cut into small pieces, the
bay leaf, lemon rind, mace, clove, allspices, salt and pepper; fill up
the jar with boiling stock, let it simmer for two or three hours,
according to the size of the hare; when cooked, take out the pieces of
hare, warm them to prevent their getting dry; mix the flour with the
water, add it to the blood and the pounded liver, thicken the gravy with
it, stir in the jelly, sauce, ketchup, lemon juice, and wine, strain on
to the hare in a casserole, put in the forcemeat balls that have been
fried in smoking hot fat; heat and serve.


                          QUAILS EN CASSEROLE

 6 quails
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 ¼ pint (½ cup) red currant jelly
 ½ lemon
 ¼ lb. preserved cherries
 1 wineglassful port wine
 ½ pint (1 cup) stock
 ½ orange rind
 Salt and pepper to season

Prepare and truss the quails. Melt the butter in an earthenware pan;
when hot, put in the birds, and brown them all over.

Cover with the lid, and put into a moderate oven till ready.

Lift out the quails and keep hot. Drain the fat from the pan, add the
stock, wine, and orange rind.

Simmer for ten minutes, then stir in the jelly. Put in the quails for
ten minutes; season with salt, pepper, and the strained lemon juice.

Before serving remove the orange rind and add the cherries.

Serve hot.


                          RABBIT EN CASSEROLE

 2 rabbits
 2 sliced onions
 2 celery stalks
 1 cupful chopped carrots
 1 bay leaf
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) flour
 1 pint (2 cups) hot water
 ½ pint (1 cup) cold water
 1 tablespoonful Worcestershire sauce
 12 stoned olives
 1 tablespoonful capers
 2 tablespoonfuls dripping
 Salt and pepper

Skin and joint the rabbits, then put them into an earthenware pan, add
the onions, celery, carrots, bay leaf, dripping, and cold water.

Simmer for thirty minutes, then remove the rabbits. Add the butter and
flour to the pan, stir over the fire till brown, then add the hot water,
stirring till smooth, add the salt, sauce, capers, olives, pepper, and
rabbits.

Cover closely and bake for forty minutes.


                             RAGOUT OF DUCK

 1 cooked duck
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 1 pint (2 cups) stock
 3 shallots
 A few sprigs of parsley
 1 teaspoonful lemon juice
 Salt and pepper
 1 teaspoonful red currant jelly
 ½ teaspoonful meat extract
 Few drops kitchen bouquet

Cut the duck into neat joints. Melt the butter in an earthenware pan,
toss the pieces of duck in it, then sprinkle in the flour, and fry it a
light brown color; then add the stock, stirring it in smoothly. Add the
parsley, lemon juice, shallots, jelly, kitchen bouquet, and meat
extract.

Put on the lid and let it simmer for thirty minutes. Season it nicely.
Pin a napkin round the casserole and serve it hot.


                          SQUABS EN CASSEROLE

 4 squabs
 1 onion
 ¼ lb. raw lean bacon
 Bunch of herbs
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 1 bay leaf
 1 blade mace
 Small piece lemon rind
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 pint (2 cups) stock
 1 wineglassful Marsala wine
 Salt and pepper to season

Cut each bird in four pieces. Cut the bacon into small pieces and the
onion into large dice. Melt the butter in a casserole, put in the bacon,
onion, herbs, mace, parsley, and bay leaf, and fry them for five
minutes, or till a good brown color.

Add the stock, and bring it to boiling point. Lay in the pieces of
squabs and lemon rind, cover the casserole tightly, and allow its
contents to simmer very gently for one hour. Next skim it well, remove
the squabs, and strain the stock. Put the squabs back in the casserole.
Mix the flour smoothly and thinly with a little cold water, add it to
the stock, and strain both over the squabs.

Put in the wine and a good seasoning of salt and pepper. Allow the gravy
to boil for five minutes to cook the flour, and serve it in the
casserole. The wine may be omitted.


                         SQUIRRELS EN CASSEROLE

 3 squirrels
 ½ lb. chopped salt pork
 1 cupful chopped onions
 1½ cupfuls sliced parboiled potatoes
 1 cupful green corn
 1 cupful lima beans
 4 quarts (16 cups) boiling water
 1 quart (4 cups) peeled, cut tomatoes
 1 tablespoonful sugar
 1 tablespoonful salt
 4 heaping tablespoonfuls (4 ozs.) butter
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) flour
 Black and red pepper to taste

Clean, wash, and joint the squirrels. Lay them in salted water for
thirty minutes. Put the ingredients into a large casserole in the
following order: First a layer of the pork, then one of the onions;
next, of potatoes; then follow with successive layers of corn cut from
the cob, the beans, and the squirrels. Season each layer with black and
red pepper. Pour in the water, put on the cover, and seal with a paste
made of flour and water. Cook gently for three hours, then add the
tomatoes, sugar, and salt. Cook for one hour longer; stir in the flour
and butter mixed together, boil for five minutes, and serve in the
casserole.


                          VENISON EN CASSEROLE

 2½ lbs. venison
 10 whole peppers
 12 tiny white onions
 1 clove garlic
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 1 bay leaf
 2 tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 1½ pints (3 cups) stock
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) flour
 12 mushrooms
 2 pickled walnuts
 Salt and pepper
 A bunch of herbs
 3 wineglassfuls port wine

Cut up the venison into square pieces; put them into an earthenware jar,
add the clove of garlic, bay leaf, peppers, a pinch of salt, and one
glassful of the wine. Let this marinade remain for six hours.

Drain the pieces of venison and dry them. Melt the butter in a
casserole, put in the venison, and fry for ten minutes; then add the
flour, and mix well; add the wine and the stock, stir till it boils,
draw to one side of the fire, add the herbs, the onions, peeled, salt
and pepper to taste, and pickled walnuts.

Simmer for forty minutes. Ten minutes before serving add the mushrooms.
Remove the herbs before serving in the casserole.




                              MEAT RECIPES

                     “_Appetite comes with eating_”


                              BAKED LIVER

 1 lb. calf’s liver
 3 heaping tablespoonfuls bread crumbs
 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
 ¼ teaspoonful powdered herbs
 1 chopped onion
 Salt and pepper to taste
 Sliced bacon
 ½ pint (1 cup) water

Cut the liver into slices one-third of an inch thick, wash and dry
thoroughly, lay it in a well-buttered casserole.

Make a forcemeat with the bread crumbs, chopped parsley, herbs, chopped
onion, salt and pepper to taste, cover each strip of liver with this,
and on the top place a strip of bacon.

Pour round the water and bake slowly for one hour.


                           BAKED VIRGINIA HAM

 1 Virginia ham
 ½ pint (1 cup) sherry wine
 A few cloves
 Brown sugar

Wash the ham and place it in cold water; let it soak for twelve hours,
then put it into fresh cold water and let it soak for another twelve
hours. When ready to cook, place it skin down in a large casserole,
which must be of good size and full of cold water. It will take about
one hour, over a moderate fire, to come to boiling point.

Then keep it boiling steadily—on no account must it be allowed to boil
fast—and as the water boils down replenish with hot, never with cold,
water, so as not to check the boiling.

When the ham is done it will, on its own accord, turn over skin up. This
is sufficient proof of its being thoroughly cooked without further test.
Let it cool in the liquor in which it was cooked. Take it out, gash the
entire top, having the gashes about half an inch apart. Stick cloves in
the gashes, sprinkle thickly with brown sugar, and pour over all the
sherry wine.

Lay the ham in a fireproof dish and bake till brown.


                           BEEF AND SAUSAGES

 1 lb. thinly cut beef
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) flour
 Some bread stuffing
 ½ lb. sausages
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 Salt and pepper

Cut the meat into neat strips. Season the flour with salt and pepper;
toss the meat in this, and fold each strip into neat rolls, placing a
small portion of light bread crumb stuffing in each. Prick and divide
the sausages. Place a layer of sausage in a casserole, then the beef,
and then the sausage. Sprinkle in the remaining flour and chopped
parsley. Cover with water, put on the lid, then cook slowly for two and
a half hours.

To make the bread stuffing: Put into a saucepan one heaping
tablespoonful of butter and fry in it one chopped onion; then add one
cupful of bread crumbs, one cupful of stock, one teaspoonful of salt,
half a teaspoonful of pepper and thyme, one tablespoonful of chopped
parsley, and half a cupful of chopped celery. Stir it until it leaves
the sides of the pan, then use.


                           BEEF AND TOMATOES

 2 lbs. lean beef
 1 bunch celery
 4 onions
 1 can tomatoes
 ¼ package macaroni
 ½ lb. grated cheese
 Salt and pepper
 1 cupful small mushrooms
 1 tablespoonful soy sauce

Cut the meat, celery, and onions into small pieces, then put them into a
frying-pan. Set on the range and stir constantly until well browned,
being careful not to scorch.

Remove from the fire, and put into a large casserole, add the tomatoes,
the macaroni cooked, the cheese grated, the mushrooms, soy, salt and
pepper.

Simmer for two hours and serve hot.

[Illustration: VEAL AND HAM PIE]

[Illustration: BEEF AND SAUSAGES]


                        CALF’S LIVER À LA MADRID

 1½ lbs. calf’s liver
 3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 ozs.) butter
 2 chopped onions
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) stock
 3 egg yolks
 1 teaspoonful lemon juice
 Salt and pepper
 Some toast points

Melt the butter in a casserole; cut the liver in thin slices and fry it
in the butter for three minutes; take out the liver, add the onions to
the butter, fry till a nice brown color; then sprinkle in the flour, add
the stock, and bring to the boil; then add the liver, cover and simmer
for thirty minutes, stir in the yolks of eggs and the lemon juice,
season nicely with salt and pepper.

Place the toast points on the top and serve in the casserole.


                            CHILLI CON CARNI

 2 lbs. round steak
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) butter
 3 dry red peppers
 4 red chillies
 3 tablespoonfuls rice
 Salt
 ½ pint (1 cup) boiling water
 2 large onions
 ¼ teaspoonful powdered thyme
 1 tablespoonful flour
 3 cloves
 1 cupful cooked beans
 1 clove garlic

Cut the steak into small pieces. Put the butter into a casserole and
allow it to get hot, then add the steak and fry it brown, then add the
water and the rice. Cover closely, and cook till very tender. Remove
seeds and partitions from red peppers and chillies and cover with
boiling water for five minutes.

Drain and chop the peppers and chillies and add them to the steak, with
the cooked beans, chopped garlic, flour, thyme, chopped onions, salt to
taste, cloves, and cook till very hot and the gravy a nice consistency.


                            HAM EN CASSEROLE

 1 slice ham cut thick
 1 small, chopped onion
 1 bay leaf
 1 blade mace
 4 cloves
 ½ teaspoonful celery seed
 1 small, sweet green pepper
 Salt and pepper
 Cider

Brown the ham on both sides in a hot frying-pan, then lay it in a
casserole, add the seasonings, the pepper and the onion chopped. Pour
over enough sweet cider to come well up on to the ham.

Cover and bake slowly for two and a half or three hours. Serve hot with
cider or tomato sauce and stuffed potatoes.


                       HAMBURG STEAK EN CASSEROLE

 1 lb. Hamburg steak
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 1 chopped onion
 ½ pint (1 cup) stock or water
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 A few fried bread croûtons
 Salt and pepper

Heat the butter in an earthenware dish, add the onion, fry it until
brown, then add the flour, stir well together, add gradually the water
or stock, and simmer for ten minutes.

Add the Hamburg steak and cook slowly for half an hour; baste it
occasionally. Season with the salt, pepper, and chopped parsley, and
place on top just before serving a few nicely fried bread croûtons.


                           HUNGARIAN GOULASH

 1 lb. lean veal
 ½ lb. lean beef
 3 tablespoonfuls lard
 1 large onion
 1½ pints (3 cups) boiling water
 1 teaspoonful paprika
 12 potato balls
 6 small white onions
 6 carrot balls
 6 turnip balls
 1 teaspoonful salt
 1 bay leaf
 1 clove
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) cold water
 1 chopped chilli pepper

Slice the onion and brown it in the lard. Remove the onion and put in
the veal and beef cut into small pieces. Brown these thoroughly, and
remove the meat and place it in a casserole. Add the paprika and the
boiling water. Cover the dish and place it in the oven.

Fry the potato, carrot, turnip balls, and onion in smoking hot fat. Add
them to the meat after it has simmered for one and a half hours. After
the vegetables are added, add the salt, bay leaf, clove, and flour mixed
with the cold water. Pour this into the casserole and stir until the
mixture is slightly thickened. Add the pepper mixed with a cupful of
boiling water. Cover and simmer for another hour and a half.

Serve from the casserole.


                               IRISH STEW

 4 lbs. mutton neck
 5 large onions
 2 lbs. potatoes
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 Salt and pepper to taste
 Water to cover

Cut the meat into neat pieces, put it into a large casserole; add the
onions sliced, and enough water to cover.

Simmer for two hours; season with salt and pepper. Add the potatoes
sliced rather thinly.

Cover closely, and continue to simmer for another hour.

Sprinkle in the parsley just before serving.


                          KIDNEYS EN CASSEROLE

 3 sheep’s kidneys
 3 ozs. (½ cup) chopped suet
 ½ lb. (2 cups) bread crumbs
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 2 eggs
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 1 teaspoonful powdered herbs
 Salt and pepper

Skin and chop the kidneys, put them into a basin with the suet, bread
crumbs, milk, eggs well beaten, parsley, herbs, and seasonings.

Mix well, turn into a buttered earthenware bowl, cover with a buttered
paper, and steam for one hour.

Serve hot with brown sauce or good gravy.


                           LAMB EN CASSEROLE

 2½ lbs. loin of lamb
 ¼ lb. (½ cup) rice
 1 pint (2 cups) good gravy
 1 blade mace
 ¼ lb. (½ cup) butter
 2 egg yolks
 Salt and pepper
 A little grated nutmeg

Half roast the loin of lamb, and cut it into steaks. Boil the rice in
boiling salted water for ten minutes, drain it, and add to it the gravy
with the nutmeg and the mace; cook slowly until the rice begins to
thicken, remove it from the fire, stir in the butter, and when melted
add the yolks of eggs well beaten; butter a casserole well, sprinkle the
steaks with salt and pepper, dip them in melted butter, and lay them in
the buttered dish; pour over the gravy that comes from them, add the
rice and simmer for half an hour.


                           MUTTON À LA VERONA

 2 lbs. neck mutton
 2 turnips
 carrots
 2 onions
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 12 preserved cherries
 1 wineglassful sherry wine
 1 tablespoonful mushroom ketchup
 4 tomatoes
 1 pint (2 cups) stock
 Salt and pepper

Wipe the meat, then cut it into neat, small joints. Melt the butter, put
in the meat, and fry it on both sides a good brown color.

Remove the meat, sprinkle in the flour, and brown it carefully. Add the
stock, and stir until it boils. Put the meat into the casserole, add the
sliced onions and tomatoes, some neatly cut pieces of carrot and turnip,
the stock, and a little salt. Put on the lid, and simmer for about two
hours, until the meat is quite tender.

Meanwhile, with a round vegetable-cutter cut out balls of carrot and
turnip, using the reddest part of the former. Cook these in boiling
salted water until tender, then drain and keep them hot. Season the stew
with salt and pepper, and stir in the wine and ketchup. Arrange the
vegetable balls and cherries on the top and serve as hot as possible.


                          OX TAIL EN CASSEROLE

 2 ox tails
 3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 ozs.) butter
 1 sliced carrot
 2 sliced onions
 2 celery stalks
 1 bunch herbs
 8 whole peppers
 4 cloves
 1 blade mace
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) brown sauce
 ½ pint (1 cup) stock
 1 teaspoonful meat extract
 A few stuffed olives
 Salt and pepper

Wash and dry the tails and cut them into joints. Put the butter into an
earthenware pan, add the vegetables, herbs, whole peppers, cloves, and
mace. Place the joints on the top of these ingredients with a buttered
paper over and the cover of the pan, and cook on the top of the stove
for twenty minutes; then remove the paper, sprinkle in the flour, add
the meat extract, brown sauce, salt and pepper to season, and the stock;
replace the paper and cover and simmer for three and a half hours,
adding a little stock occasionally as the liquor reduces, and removing
any fat that may rise to the surface.

When ready to serve, put the ox tails on a hot fireproof dish, and rub
the vegetables through a sieve with the liquor. Reheat the sauce, add
the olives, and pour it over the meat.


                         OX TONGUE EN CASSEROLE

 1 ox tongue
 2 carrots
 2 onions
 1 turnip
 A bunch parsley
 Little thyme and marjoram
 3 cloves
 6 allspices
 Stock or water
 Salt and pepper

Wash and trim the tongue carefully, roll it round in the same way as you
would ribs of beef, and keep it in shape with a piece of tape.

Wash and trim the vegetables, and cut them in pieces. Lay half of them
in a casserole with the spices. Next put in the tongue, then the rest of
the vegetables, and pour in enough stock or water to half cover the
tongue. Put the lid on the casserole, and let the contents simmer gently
for four hours. The tongue should be turned once during the cooking.

Then either serve the tongue hot, with the stock thickened, carefully
seasoned, and flavored with mushroom ketchup, or serve it cold garnished
with parsley.


                           PORK EN CASSEROLE

 6 pork chops
 2 large onions
 1 tablespoonful powdered sage
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 1 teaspoonful salt
 1 teaspoonful pepper
 1 teaspoonful curry powder
 Hot apple sauce

Cut up the onions and mix them with the sage. Mix together the flour,
salt, pepper, and curry powder. Dip the pork chops into this mixture.
Put the onions into a casserole, lay the chops on the top, cover with
hot water, and simmer in the oven for two hours.

Serve with hot apple sauce.

To make the apple sauce: Put into a saucepan one heaping cupful of
chopped apples, add one tablespoonful of arrowroot, a few grains of
salt, one tablespoonful of lemon juice, grated rind of one lemon, a
pinch of powdered cinnamon and a quarter of a pint of cold water. Cook
all together for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally. Strain and
serve in an earthenware gravy boat.

[Illustration: GROUP OF CASSEROLES]


                           STEAK EN CASSEROLE

 2 lbs. steak
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 1 onion
 3 tablespoonfuls brown sauce
 1 tablespoonful chopped pickles
 ½ cupful diced fried bacon
 10 small mushrooms (canned)
 1 diced cooked carrot
 1 diced cooked potato
 1 teaspoonful meat extract
 A few small fried potatoes
 Salt and pepper

Cut the steak into six neatly shaped flat pieces, and season them with
salt and pepper. Fry them slightly on one side in a little of the
butter, over a quick fire, and set them aside.

Peel the onion and chop it finely, fry it in a small stewpan in one
tablespoonful of the butter to a golden color, moisten with the brown
sauce and a little of the mushroom liquor. Boil up, and add the pickles,
bacon, mushrooms, carrot, and potato. Heat up these and put them in a
casserole, place the meat on the top, add the meat extract, dissolved,
cover and cook in the oven for twenty minutes.

Serve hot in the casserole, with the fried potatoes placed on the top.


                        STEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING

 1½ lbs. lean beef
 3 sheep’s kidneys
 ½ lb. (2 cups) flour
 1 teaspoonful baking powder
 Salt and pepper
 1 cupful chopped suet
 Water or buttermilk
 2 tablespoonfuls flour

Chop the suet and rub it into the flour, add the baking powder, half a
teaspoonful of salt, and enough water or buttermilk to make a stiff
paste. Cut off a small piece for a lid.

Roll out the larger piece and line a greased casserole with it.

Cut the meat in thin slices; remove the fat from the kidneys and cut
them into four pieces.

Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour with a little salt and pepper, then dip
the meat and the kidneys into them. Place the meat and kidneys into the
prepared casserole, fill up with water, roll out the small piece of
paste and lay it on the top.

Cover with the casserole lid or a piece of buttered paper, and steam
steadily for two and a half hours.


                        SWEETBREADS EN CASSEROLE

 3 sweetbreads
 1 bunch herbs
 ½ pint (1 cup) stock
 ¼ lb. fat bacon
 1 carrot
 1 onion
 A few parsley sprigs
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 Salt and pepper

Soak the sweetbreads in cold water for two hours, changing the water
several times; drop them into boiling water for three minutes, lift out
into cold water for fifteen minutes; drain, and remove the skin and fat,
place them for half an hour between two plates, divide the bacon into
neat lardoons, and lard them; slice the vegetables and lay them in a
casserole, lay the sweetbreads on the top, pour in the stock, and simmer
for half an hour.

Melt the butter in another pan, add the flour and the stock from the
sweetbreads, and boil for three minutes. Lift the sweetbreads on to a
hot dish and strain the sauce over them.


                              SWISS STEAK

 1½ lbs. round steak
 1 carrot
 1 small turnip
 1 onion
 1 tomato
 1 bay leaf
 Salt and pepper
 Some flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) boiling water
 2 tablespoonfuls dripping or butter

The steak should be cut two inches thick. Pound into it, using a steak
shredder, as much flour as it will hold.

Melt the butter in a casserole, and when it is hot brown the steak in
it, turning it over.

Add the onion, carrot, turnip, and tomato sliced and fry them for a few
minutes, then add the bay leaf and seasoning of salt and pepper. Pour in
the boiling water, put on the cover, and simmer for two hours.


                            VEAL AND HAM PIE

 1½ lbs. veal
 2 hard cooked eggs
 ½ lb. ham
 1 tablespoonful flour
 1 teaspoonful grated lemon rind
 1 teaspoonful powdered herbs
 Salt, pepper, red pepper, and mace to taste
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 Some puff pastry
 Stock

Cut the veal and ham into thin slices; mix on a plate the flour, salt,
pepper, red pepper, mace, powdered herbs, and lemon rind, roll in this
seasoning each piece of veal, and lay in a deep casserole, alternately,
layers of veal, ham, and egg cut in slices; pile this in the center of
the dish, add one cupful of water, and the parsley; cover with puff
pastry and bake in a hot oven for one and a quarter hours.

When baked add a little very good seasoned stock.

Serve hot or cold.


                              YORK HOT POT

 2 lbs. mutton neck
 2 lbs. potatoes
 3 onions
 3 mutton kidneys
 12 oysters
 1 pint (2 cups) stock
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter or dripping
 1 teaspoonful curry powder
 Salt and pepper to taste

Cut the meat into neat cutlets. Peel the potatoes, and cut six or eight
of them in halves, slicing the rest thickly. Peel and slice the onions
thinly. Wash the mushrooms and oysters. Skin and halve the kidneys.

Put all these in layers in a casserole. The last one should be of
potatoes cut in halves. Season well, put in the butter, and pour in the
stock; put the lid on, and cook gently in a slow oven for two and a half
hours.

For the last half hour remove the lid, so that the potatoes may brown
nicely. Serve in the casserole.




                           COLD MEAT RECIPES

           “_I always match my appetite to my bill of fare_”


                           CHICKEN AU GRATIN

 ½ lb. cold chicken
 ½ cupful grated cheese
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) rice
 ½ pint (1 cup) tomato sauce
 A few bread crumbs
 Salt and pepper

Cut the chicken into small pieces. Cook the rice in boiling salted water
until tender. Drain well. Butter an au gratin dish, place a layer of
chicken at the bottom, then a layer of cooked rice.

Pour some tomato sauce over this, sprinkle with bread crumbs, grated
cheese, and salt and pepper.

Repeat these layers until the dish is full. The last layer must be
cheese and bread crumbs. Place in a hot oven to brown.


                           CHICKEN RAMEQUINS

 1½ cupfuls cooked chicken cubes
 ½ pint (1 cup) cooked peas
 1 gill (½ cup) sliced mushrooms
 2 ozs. (¼ cup) butter
 2 tablespoonfuls flour
 Salt and pepper
 Dust of paprika
 1 gill (½ cup) chicken stock
 1 gill (½ cup) cream
 1 gill (½ cup) liquor from canned mushrooms
 A few browned bread crumbs

Blend the butter and flour together in a fireproof dish, add the chicken
stock, cream, mushroom liquor, and seasoning of salt, pepper, and
paprika. Stir until they boil for three minutes, then add the chicken,
peas, and mushrooms, and when all are thoroughly hot and well mixed,
divide into hot buttered ramequins.

Sprinkle a few browned bread crumbs over the top and serve at once.


                              CHOPPED VEAL

 1 lb. chopped veal
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 ¾ pint (1½ cups) gravy or stock
 Seasoning salt, pepper, lemon juice, and mace
 Toast points and cut lemon

Put the butter into a fireproof dish, and when quite hot add the flour
and brown it, then add the stock; boil for five minutes, then add the
veal and seasonings.

Heat through but do not boil. Serve garnished with toast points and cut
lemon.

The gravy or stock may be made by stewing the veal bones with a carrot,
turnip, onion, sprig of parsley, and a strip of lemon rind for one hour.


                              COTTAGE PIE

 Some cold potatoes
 Some cold chopped meat
 A little dripping
 A little gravy
 Salt and pepper to taste

Rice the potatoes or rub them through a sieve; butter a fireproof dish,
put in alternate layers of potatoes and meat, add a little pepper, salt,
and gravy to each layer; continue this until the dish is full, and have
a good layer of potatoes for the top; mark the top with a fork, and put
on a few pieces of butter or dripping.

Bake a nice brown color and serve hot.


                            MACARONI RAGOUT

 ½ package macaroni
 2 tablespoonfuls chopped cooked ham
 1 tablespoonful chopped cooked meat or tongue
 1 oz. (4 tablespoonfuls) grated cheese
 Salt, pepper, and dust of red pepper
 2 tablespoonfuls cornstarch
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) butter
 ½ teaspoonful meat extract
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley.

Break the macaroni into inch lengths, then boil it in plenty of boiling
salted water until tender; drain and keep hot.

Mix the cornstarch with a little cold milk till smooth; boil the
remaining milk, stir in the cornstarch, meat extract, seasonings,
chopped parsley, cheese, chopped ham, chopped meat or tongue; allow to
cook for ten minutes, stirring occasionally.

Pile the macaroni mixture in a buttered casserole and pour over it the
cornstarch mixture.

Put in the oven to brown over and serve hot.


                    CREAMED DRIED BEEF WITH MACARONI

 ½ lb. sliced dried beef
 ¼ lb. macaroni
 4 hard cooked eggs cut in rings
 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 4 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) butter
 4 ozs. (4 tablespoonfuls) flour
 Salt and paprika to taste

Break the macaroni into inch lengths, then throw it into boiling salted
water, allow to cook for forty minutes, then drain and keep hot.

Melt the butter in a casserole, then fry the beef until slightly
browned, then remove the beef, stir in the flour, and cook for eight
minutes; add the seasonings and the beef.

Arrange the macaroni on a hot casserole, pour over the beef, and garnish
with the eggs.


                              MUTTON HASH

 Some cold mutton
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 1 celery stalk
 Bunch sweet herbs
 ½ pint (1 cup) stock
 1 small onion
 2 parsley sprigs
 Salt and pepper
 Some mashed potatoes

Melt the butter in an earthenware pan, and when quite hot, brown the
onion sliced, then the flour; add the stock, which may be made by
stewing the bones with one onion, carrot, turnip, and a blade of mace;
when boiling, add the celery, herbs, parsley, pepper, and salt; simmer
for half an hour, then add the mutton, taking care to remove the fat;
allow this to simmer for half an hour.

Serve hot with mashed potatoes.


                                PORK PIE

 Some cold pork
 ½ package macaroni
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 Salt and pepper to taste
 4 ozs. (1 cup) grated cheese
 1 onion
 ½ pint (1 cup) cream
 1 egg
 Some pastry

Cut the meat into neat pieces; boil the macaroni in boiling salted water
for half an hour, then drain it; mix the pork with the macaroni, add the
cheese, the onion and parsley chopped fine, cream, salt and pepper to
taste; butter a fireproof pie-plate, line it with pastry, fill it with
the mixture, cover it with pastry, brush it over with the egg well
beaten, and bake in a hot oven for half an hour.

Serve hot.


                             PUFFS OF MEAT

 1 cupful diced roast meat
 2 eggs
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 1 teaspoonful baking powder
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 Salt and pepper to taste

Beat up the eggs, add them gradually to the flour, then add the milk,
meat, salt and pepper, and powder. Divide into buttered cocottes, and
bake in a hot oven.

Serve hot.


                           RÉCHAUFFÉ OF BEEF

 Some slices of cold roast beef, rare if possible
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) butter
 3 tablespoonfuls red currant jelly
 1 wineglassful sherry wine
 Salt and red pepper to taste

Melt the butter and red currant jelly in a casserole, then add the wine
and the seasonings.

When thoroughly hot, add the beef cut in small, neat, rather thick
slices. Heat it through, but do not let it boil.


                            SOUFFLÉ OF VEAL

 1 pint (2 cups) cold cooked chopped veal
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) butter
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) flour
 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 4 eggs
 2 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley
 Salt and pepper to taste

Blend the butter and the flour in an earthenware dish over the fire, add
gradually the milk, stir till it thickens, and cook for five minutes.
Then add the veal, parsley, and the seasonings.

Remove from the fire and add the eggs well beaten. Pour into a
well-buttered casserole and bake in the oven until nicely browned, it
will take twenty or twenty-five minutes.

Serve hot.


                           SURPRISE POTATOES

 5 large potatoes
 1 lb. cold meat
 3 mushrooms
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 ½ tablespoonful chopped parsley
 Salt and pepper to season

Peel and chop the mushrooms, and cook them in one tablespoonful of the
butter. Cut the meat into small pieces, add it to the mushrooms, season
nicely, and heat thoroughly. Choose five large, even-sized potatoes,
wash and dry them; make a small incision in each, place in a hot oven,
and bake until soft.

Cut each potato into half lengthways, scoop out most of the center, and
rub through a sieve. Season with salt and pepper, add the remainder of
the butter and the parsley; replace some of this mixture in the potato
skin, leaving a hollow in each.

Fill this center cavity with the meat preparation. Place the halves of
potato together again, lay them in small fireproof dishes, and put in
the oven to reheat.


                            TONGUE RAMEQUINS

 1 cupful diced cooked tongue
 1 firm lettuce
 2 pickled walnuts
 1 hard cooked egg
 Seasoning of salt and pepper
 Some chopped aspic jelly

Chop the tongue, hard cooked egg, crisp lettuce leaves, and walnuts;
then mix them together, seasoning them with a little salt and pepper.
Divide into white china ramequins and decorate the top with chopped
aspic jelly.

Serve very cold.


                             TONGUE STANLEY

 A few slices cold tongue
 Some poached eggs
 A few chopped pistachio nuts
 Some good white stock or sauce
 Salt and pepper to season

Cut the slices of tongue half an inch in thickness, then trim them neat
and round. Lay these rounds in small fireproof dishes, season with salt
and pepper, place a poached egg on each piece of tongue, pour over some
good white stock or sauce, heat in the oven, and serve decorated with
chopped pistachio nuts.


                          TURKEY EN CASSEROLE

 The remains of a turkey
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 1 pint (2 cups) stock
 1 bay leaf
 3 sprigs parsley
 1 small onion
 1 wineglassful port wine
 Salt and pepper to taste

Put the bones and trimmings of the turkey, the onion, and herbs, with
water to cover, into an earthenware pan.

Let these simmer for one hour. Melt the butter, stir in the flour
smoothly, and fry it carefully a good brown. Then strain in the stock,
stirring it well all the time.

Let it boil, then season it carefully and add the wine. Cut the turkey
into neat pieces, put it into a casserole, strain over the gravy, cover,
and put the casserole either in the oven or on the stove.

Let the meat heat gently, being careful that it does not _boil_, or it
will become hard and tough.

Serve in the casserole.


                             VEAL RAMEQUINS

 1 lb. diced cooked veal
 ¼ lb. cooked ham or tongue
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 6 cooked button mushrooms
 4 tablespoonfuls white sauce
 2 eggs
 Salt and pepper to taste
 1 cupful rice
 Some stock
 Tomato sauce

Cook the rice in some boiling stock till tender, then drain it. Line
some small buttered ramequins with it.

Mix together the veal, ham, or tongue cut into strips, the parsley,
sauce, seasonings, the mushrooms chopped, yolks of eggs, and whites of
eggs well beaten; divide this mixture into the prepared dishes.

Cover and steam for twenty minutes. Serve hot with tomato sauce.




                           VEGETABLE RECIPES

            “_The Gods sent not corn for the rich men only_”


                          ASPARAGUS AU GRATIN

 ½ pint (1 cup) asparagus tips
 10 small dinner rolls
 1 gill (½ cup) white sauce
 1 tablespoonful grated cheese
 1 egg yolk
 1 tablespoonful cream
 Few drops lemon juice
 Salt, pepper, paprika, and grated nutmeg to taste

Cut the tops from the rolls, scoop the soft part of the crumb, and place
them in the oven to get dry and crisp. Boil the asparagus tips in
boiling salted water till tender, then drain. Canned asparagus tips may
be used, but do not boil them. Heat the sauce in a fireproof dish, add
the cheese, seasonings, yolk of egg, cream, and asparagus tips.

Cook for five minutes. Fill up the rolls with this mixture, sprinkle
with grated cheese, and dish on a folded napkin in an au gratin dish.

[Illustration: BAKED BEANS]


                              BAKED BEANS

 4 cupfuls beans
 ½ lb. salt pork
 1 heaping teaspoonful mustard
 1 tablespoonful salt
 4 tablespoonfuls molasses or sugar
 1 onion, if liked

Soak the beans in cold water (soft water preferred) over night. In the
morning wash and rinse them thoroughly, then parboil them until they are
soft enough to pierce with a darning needle. Change the water while
parboiling, always using boiling water for cooking and rinsing. Drain,
put one-half of the beans into a bean pot; add the mustard, salt, and
sweetening.

Score the pork and place it on the top of the beans, cover with the
remaining beans, and then cover the whole with boiling water.

Put the lid on the bean pot and bake in a slow oven for eight hours.

Uncover the last hour of cooking.

To score pork, cut the pork rind into squares.


                             BAKED CABBAGE

 1 firm cabbage
 2 eggs
 Salt and pepper
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls chopped cooked bacon
 2 tablespoonfuls milk
 1 tablespoonful butter

Trim the cabbage and boil it till tender in plenty of boiling salted
water. Press out all the moisture, chop it fine, and press it again.

Now add the butter, milk, bacon, seasonings, and the eggs well beaten.

Mix and turn into a buttered fireproof dish, and bake till well browned
on the top.

Small pieces of butter dotted about on the surface are an improvement
and hasten the browning operation.


                              BAKED ONIONS

 12 medium sized onions
 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 2 tablespoonfuls fine tapioca
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 Salt and pepper

Peel the onions and boil them till tender in boiling salted water. Drain
and place them in a buttered casserole; pour in the milk mixed with the
tapioca, then add the butter, parsley, salt and pepper. Bake in the oven
for half an hour. Serve in the casserole.


                             BAKED PARSNIPS

 6 parsnips
 Salt and pepper
 4 ozs. (½ cup) melted butter

Peel and wash the parsnips and cut them in two lengthways. Steam them
for one hour. Remove them from the fire, put them into a buttered
earthenware dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, pour the melted butter
over them, and set in the oven to bake slowly till perfectly tender and
brown.


                           BEANS WITH ONIONS

 1 pint (2 cups) cooked beans
 3 large chopped onions
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) butter
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) flour
 Salt and pepper to taste
 ½ pint (1 cup) water or stock

Melt the butter in a fireproof dish, then fry the onion in it till a
light brown color, sprinkle in the flour, salt and pepper, then stir in
the cooked beans and the water or stock.

Bake till thoroughly hot and serve with roast meat.


                             BRAISED ONIONS

 4 Spanish onions
 2 sheep’s kidneys
 1 cupful (½ pint) brown gravy
 Salt and pepper to taste

Wipe and skin the kidneys, then slice them finely, and season with salt
and pepper to taste. Peel the onions, scoop out the center portion, and
fill with the kidneys. Place them in a casserole, add the gravy, and
cook slowly for about two hours. Serve hot.


                            BROWNED POTATOES

 12 potatoes
 4 ozs. (½ cup) melted butter
 1 onion
 ½ teaspoonful black pepper

Peel the potatoes and boil them in boiling salted water until they are
nearly, though not quite, done.

Take up, drain, and cut each potato in halves lengthways; put flat side
down on a hot buttered earthenware pan, set into the oven, baste with
the melted butter having the onion juice and black pepper in it, till
the potatoes are brown and quite tender.


                      BRUSSELS SPROUTS WITH CHEESE

 1 box Brussels sprouts
 ½ pint (1 cup) rich cream
 1 teaspoonful salt
 ½ cupful grated Parmesan cheese

Trim the sprouts and boil them in boiling salted water till they are
perfectly tender, drain thoroughly, and let get quite cold.

Mix the cream and salt together, then dip each sprout into it; arrange
them in a buttered shallow earthenware dish, sprinkle the cheese over
them, and bake in a hot oven for six minutes.

Serve hot.


                         CANDIED SWEET POTATOES

 4 sweet potatoes
 1 tablespoonful butter
 ½ pint (1 cup) molasses
 Salt and pepper

Select yellow sweet potatoes, peel them, and slice them lengthways.
Steam with the butter, salt and pepper, and a little water.

When tender drain off the water. Put the potatoes into an earthenware
baking dish, pour over the molasses, and bake in a hot oven until the
molasses candies over the potatoes.


                         CARROTS À LA POMPADOUR

 2 cupfuls cooked sliced carrots
 2 cupfuls cooked sliced potatoes
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) cream
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese
 Salt and pepper
 A few browned bread crumbs

Butter a fireproof dish, then put in the carrots and then the potatoes
on the top. Blend the butter and flour together in a saucepan over the
fire, add gradually the milk, cream, cheese, salt and pepper, and stir
till it boils.

Pour over the potatoes, sprinkle the browned bread crumbs on the top.
Bake in a hot oven for ten minutes.


                         CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN

 1 cauliflower
 1 pint (2 cups) white sauce
 3 tablespoonfuls grated cheese
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 Salt and pepper

Wash and trim the cauliflower and boil it in boiling salted water till
tender. When done, drain well and shape it neatly. Mix two
tablespoonfuls of the grated cheese with the white sauce. Butter an au
gratin dish and put in it three tablespoonfuls of the sauce. Upon this
place the cauliflower, head upward.

Cover with the sauce, which has been nicely seasoned, and sprinkle the
surface with fine bread crumbs and the rest of the cheese. Place the
butter in pieces here and there on the top, and bake for a quarter of an
hour.


                               COLCANNON

 6 cupfuls boiled cabbage
 3 cupfuls mashed potatoes
 3 ozs. (3 heaping tablespoonfuls) butter
 Salt and pepper to taste
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk

Mix the cabbage, potatoes, half of the butter, milk, and the salt and
pepper together with a fork.

Put the mixture into a buttered earthenware baking dish, place the rest
of the butter on the top, and bake for three-quarters of an hour in a
fairly hot oven.

Serve hot, alone or with meat of any kind.


                              CORN PUDDING

 12 ears sweet corn
 1½ pints (3 cups) milk
 4 eggs
 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoonfuls) sugar
 Salt and pepper to taste

Cut the corn from the cob, rejecting the hull. Put the corn into a deep
buttered earthenware dish, add the milk, sugar, salt and pepper, and the
eggs well beaten.

Bake in a moderate oven for two hours.


                           CURRIED VEGETABLES

 2 beets
 2 onions
 2 turnips
 3 carrots
 5 potatoes
 1 parsnip
 1 cupful string-beans
 2 celery stalks
 2 sweet red peppers
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 tablespoonful curry powder
 1 teaspoonful salt
 1 cupful (½ lb.) boiled rice
 1 pint (2 cups) stock

Cook all the vegetables, then cut them into dice-shaped pieces. Melt the
butter in a casserole, add the onions, and fry them a nice brown color.
Stir in the flour and curry powder, add gradually the stock, stir till
boiling, then simmer for a quarter of an hour; add the vegetables,
season nicely, cover the casserole, and cook slowly for half an hour.

Remove the fat from the top of the vegetables. Place the red peppers cut
in strips on the top and serve with the rice.


                          EGG-PLANT AU GRATIN

 1 egg-plant
 1 heaping tablespoonful chopped lean bacon
 6 chopped mushrooms
 2 chopped shallots
 1 heaping tablespoonful chopped suet
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs
 1 tablespoonful milk
 2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese
 1 egg
 Some white sauce
 Seasoning of salt, pepper, paprika, and grated nutmeg

Cut the egg-plant in two lengthways and remove a portion of the interior
to make room for the stuffing. Melt the butter in an earthenware pan,
stir in the shallots, bacon, mushrooms, suet, parsley, seasonings, one
tablespoonful of the cheese, and the egg well beaten. Put this stuffing
into the egg-plant. Arrange on a buttered au gratin dish, sprinkle with
a mixture of bread crumbs and grated cheese. Bake in a moderate oven for
three-quarters of an hour.

Serve hot with white sauce.


                         ESCALLOPED SWEET CORN

 Corn
 Bread crumbs
 Salt and pepper
 Butter
 Milk

Cut the corn from the cob, put a layer in a buttered earthenware dish,
sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cover with fine bread crumbs. Repeat
this until the dish is full, having the crumbs on the top; then dot with
butter and fill the dish with milk.

Bake in a moderate oven till ready.


                             LENTILS CREOLE

 1 cupful (½ lb.) lentils
 3 canned red peppers
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 1 pint (2 cups) tomatoes
 1 onion
 Salt and pepper

Wash the lentils, then cover with cold water and soak overnight. Drain,
cover with fresh warm water, and simmer for half an hour. Bring to
boiling point. Again drain, again cover with hot water, and simmer until
the lentils are tender.

They are ready when they mash easily between the fingers. Melt the
butter in a casserole; add the onion and red peppers chopped fine. Stir
and cook until the butter is browned. Add the tomatoes, canned or raw,
salt and pepper to taste. Drain the lentils and add them. Cook for half
an hour without the cover.


                          MUSHROOMS AU GRATIN

 1 lb. mushrooms
 3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 ozs.) butter
 1 tablespoonful grated cheese
 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs
 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
 1 tablespoonful chopped cooked meat
 Stock to moisten
 Salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste

Select six large fresh mushrooms from the pound of mushrooms and mince
the remainder with the stems. Sauté the latter in the butter for two
minutes.

Mix the bread crumbs, cheese, parsley, seasonings, sautéed mushrooms,
and stock to moisten. Fill into the large mushroom caps, sprinkle a few
bread crumbs over the top, place in a fireproof dish, and bake for a
quarter of an hour.

[Illustration: CURRIED VEGETABLES]

[Illustration: MUSHROOMS AU GRATIN]


                        OKRA, RICE, AND TOMATOES

 1 quart okra
 ½ lb. (1 cup) rice
 ½ can tomatoes
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 Salt, pepper, dust of paprika

Wash the rice and boil it in boiling salted water till tender; drain,
and add the butter, salt, pepper, and paprika. Cut the okra in slices
and cook it in a small quantity of boiling water. When nearly ready add
the tomatoes and the rice.

Serve hot in fireproof dishes.


                           PEAS EN CASSEROLE

 2 quarts shelled peas
 Small bunch parsley
 12 tiny white onions
 ½ pint (1 cup) water
 3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 ozs.) butter
 ½ teaspoonful powdered mint
 Salt and pepper to taste

Peel the onions and put them into a casserole, add the peas, butter,
mint, water, parsley, salt, and pepper. Cover and simmer for one hour.

Remove the parsley and serve hot.


                           POTATOES AU GRATIN

 2 lbs. potatoes
 Salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste
 1 egg
 1½ pints (3 cups) boiling milk
 1 garlic clove
 ½ lb. grated cheese
 2 tablespoonfuls butter

Peel and finely slice the potatoes. Put them into a basin, add half of
the cheese, milk, seasonings, and the egg well beaten.

Rub some au gratin dishes with the clove of garlic and then well butter
them; divide the mixture into them; sprinkle the rest of the cheese on
the top; dot with the butter, and cook in a moderate oven for forty
minutes.


                       POTATO BALLS EN CASSEROLE

 1 lb. boiled potatoes
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (1 oz.) grated cheese
 2 egg yolks
 Salt and paprika to taste
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley

Rub the potatoes through a sieve, add the butter, cheese, yolks of eggs
well beaten, salt and pepper.

Make into neat balls, lay them on a buttered fireproof dish, brush over
with a little beaten egg, mark with a fork, and bake a nice brown color
in the oven; pour over them a little melted butter, and sprinkle with
the chopped parsley and paprika.

Serve hot.


                          RICE AND TOMATO PIE

 1 lb. tomatoes
 ¼ lb. (½ cup) rice
 1 small onion
 ½ pint (1 cup) stock
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter or dripping
 3 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 Salt, pepper and curry powder to taste

Wash the rice. Bring the stock to the boiling point, then put in the
rice and cook it until it has absorbed all the stock.

Butter a casserole. Peel and slice the tomatoes. Put them in layers with
the rice in the dish; dust each layer with a little salt, pepper, curry
powder, chopped parsley, and chopped onion. Sprinkle a layer of bread
crumbs on the top, and put the butter on the top in small pieces.

Bake in a moderate oven for about forty minutes.


                          SALSIFY EN CASSEROLE

 1 bundle salsify
 1 pint (2 cups) white sauce
 1 teaspoonful anchovy extract
 1 teaspoonful lemon juice
 1 tablespoonful butter
 Few browned bread crumbs
 Salt and pepper

Scrape and wash the roots of the salsify and put it to boil in boiling
salted water in which has been squeezed the juice of half a lemon; when
tender, drain off the water and cut into half-inch lengths.

Season the sauce with the lemon juice, anchovy extract, salt, and
pepper. Toss the salsify in the sauce, turn it into a fireproof dish,
put the bread crumbs and the butter on the top, and bake for a quarter
of an hour.


                             STEWED LETTUCE

 12 heads of lettuce
 1 sliced onion
 1 small bunch parsley
 Salt and pepper
 ½ pint (1 cup) water
 2 ozs. (¼ cup) melted butter

Wash the lettuce, cutting off the stalks at the roots, and put it into
an earthenware pan with the onion, parsley, water, salt, and pepper;
cook slowly for two hours. By this time the water should have pretty
well cooked away, leaving the lettuce fairly dry.

Remove from it the onion and parsley, add the melted butter, and serve
hot.


                            STUFFED PEPPERS

 6 sweet green peppers
 4 tablespoonfuls chopped cooked ham
 4 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 1 gill (½ cup) tomatoes
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) butter
 1 slice chopped onion
 Salt and pepper
 Water or stock

Use peppers of uniform size. Cut a piece off the stem end, and remove
the seeds and partitions. Drop them into boiling water and boil for ten
minutes.

Mix together the ham, parsley, bread crumbs, tomatoes, onion, butter,
salt and pepper, and stuff them into the peppers.

Cover with a few buttered bread crumbs, place in a buttered fireproof
dish, pour in a little water or stock, and bake in a moderate oven for
three-quarters of an hour.


                            STUFFED POTATOES

 8 large potatoes
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) butter
 3 tablespoonfuls cream
 A few buttered bread crumbs
 Salt, pepper, and paprika

Wash and dry the potatoes and bake them in a hot oven. When done, cut
off the tops, scoop out the potato, and put it in a bowl, with the
butter, cream, and seasonings.

Beat together until smooth, then return the mixture to the shells,
sprinkle over with the bread crumbs, put a tiny piece of butter on the
top of each, and cover with the tops.

Put into a casserole and bake till hot.


                            STUFFED TOMATOES

 6 tomatoes
 Some sweet corn
 Cream
 Salt and onion juice
 A little chopped red pepper
 A few dashes Worcestershire sauce
 A little lemon juice

Have the tomatoes of uniform shape and size, wash and dry them, cut a
round piece from the stem end of each.

Cut some tender sweet corn from the ears and set to heat with a little
cream, salt, Worcestershire sauce, a few drops of onion juice, and a
little chopped red pepper.

Scoop out the seeds from the tomatoes. Fill the tomatoes with the corn,
lay them on a buttered fireproof dish, and bake until they are tender.

Serve with a little melted butter and lemon juice put over each one.


                           TURNIPS AU GRATIN

 9 turnips
 1 pint (2 cups) white sauce
 4 heaping tablespoonfuls grated cheese
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 Salt and pepper

Wash and peel the turnips, soak them in cold salted water for ten
minutes. Drain, and cook the turnips in boiling salted water till half
cooked.

Drain and cut in slices. Butter a gratin dish; arrange the slices on it
in a heap. Heat the sauce, add two tablespoonfuls of the cheese to it;
season the turnips with salt and pepper, pour the sauce over, and
sprinkle the rest of the grated cheese over the top; put a few pieces of
butter here and there, and cook in a hot oven till a light brown color.




                             SALAD RECIPES

                  “_We may pick a thousand salads,
                  Ere we light on such another herb_”


                          ALLIGATOR PEAR SALAD

 3 ripe alligator pears
 3 tomatoes
 1 canned sweet pepper
 1 teaspoonful onion juice
 1 teaspoonful salt
 1 tablespoonful vinegar

Cut the pears in halves, remove the stones, and scrape the pulp from the
skin. Peel the tomatoes, add them to the pear pulp, add the red pepper,
and pound them till they are smooth, then drain off the liquid. Add the
salt, onion juice, and lemon juice to the mixture.

Mix thoroughly and serve in small earthenware dishes.


                             AMERICAN SALAD

 3 hard cooked eggs
 1 cupful chopped celery
 1 lettuce
 ½ cupful sliced radishes
 1 cupful diced cucumbers
 1 teaspoonful made mustard
 1 teaspoonful grated horseradish
 Salt and black pepper
 Oil
 Vinegar

Slice the eggs, mix them with the radishes and cucumber, then add a
little oil, vinegar, black pepper, and salt. Put two yolks of eggs into
a basin, add the mustard, one teaspoonful of vinegar, seasoning of salt
and pepper, and enough olive oil to make it creamy. Add the grated
horseradish. Drain the vegetables and divide them into ramequins and
pour the dressing over them.

The fireproof dishes should be lined with crisp lettuce leaves.


                            ARTICHOKE SALAD

 ¼ peck Jerusalem artichokes
 French dressing
 1 teaspoonful grated horseradish
 2 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley
 2 tablespoonfuls capers
 1 tablespoonful chopped red pepper

Wash and scrape the artichokes; boil them in boiling salted water till
tender—the water should contain a little lemon juice and butter. Drain
and slice them, and while they are hot pour over them a French dressing
made of three parts olive oil to one of vinegar, the horseradish, and
the necessary salt and pepper.

Divide into ramequins and set away to get very cold. Garnish, when
sending to table, with chopped parsley, capers, and peppers.

[Illustration: AMERICAN SALAD]


                       ASPARAGUS AND SHRIMP SALAD

 1 pint (2 cups) boiled asparagus tips
 1 pint (2 cups) cooked and sliced shrimps
 Mayonnaise dressing
 1 tablespoonful capers
 1 tablespoonful chopped olives
 1 teaspoonful French mustard

Boil the asparagus tips and let them get cold; then put them into a
fireproof dish with the shrimps. Put the capers, olives, and French
mustard into the mayonnaise dressing, then mix it with the asparagus and
shrimps.


                              CHERRY SALAD

 2 cupfuls large, firm cherries
 Some crisp lettuce leaves
 Mayonnaise dressing
 ½ cupful blanched and cut almonds

Stone the cherries and cut them in halves; then mix them with the
almonds and mayonnaise dressing. If mayonnaise is not desired, use a
dressing made of four tablespoonfuls of olive oil, one tablespoonful of
lemon juice, one teaspoonful of sherry wine, and seasoning of salt,
pepper, and grated nutmeg.

Serve in cocottes lined with crisp lettuce leaves.


                             CUCUMBER SALAD

 3 cucumbers
 1 red sweet pepper
 1 tablespoonful lemon juice
 1 teaspoonful onion juice
 Salt and pepper
 Oil and vinegar

Peel two of the cucumbers and cut them in two lengthways. Then scrape
out all the seeds. Put the pieces of cucumber into ice water containing
the lemon juice.

Chop the third cucumber with the red pepper, and season this mixture
with the salt, pepper, oil, vinegar, and onion juice.

Set the cucumbers on ice to get very cold. Cut each half in two
lengthways in serving.

This salad looks dainty on small earthenware dishes.


                      ENDIVE AND GRAPE FRUIT SALAD

 ½ lb. French endive
 1 ripe grape fruit
 French dressing
 Paprika
 1 romaine

Wash and dry the endive and mix it with the carpels of the grape fruit.
Color some French dressing well with paprika, and pour it over the salad
at the moment of serving.

Mix well and serve on leaves of romaine, or simply in ramequins without
the romaine.


                              FRUIT SALAD

 2 cupfuls diced tart apples
 Pulp 1 grape fruit
 3 diced bananas
 ½ cupful white grapes
 French dressing
 Lettuce leaves

Mix the apples with the pulp of the grape fruit, add the bananas, and
mix with the French dressing.

Serve on lettuce leaves in cocottes and garnish with peeled and seeded
grapes.


                            JARDINIÈRE SALAD

 1 cupful strips new turnip
 1 cupful strips new carrots
 1 cupful strips potatoes
 1 cupful green peas
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 Chicken stock
 4 tablespoonfuls olive oil
 2 tablespoonfuls white wine vinegar
 Mayonnaise dressing

Put the turnips, carrots, potatoes, and peas into a casserole with the
butter. Cover them with the chicken stock, and cook until they are quite
tender; then drain.

Mix the oil and vinegar and stir them into the vegetables. Set away in a
cool place for one hour. Divide into small earthenware dishes and cover
with the mayonnaise dressing.


                        LETTUCE AND POTATO SALAD

 1 large crisp lettuce
 1 cupful diced potatoes
 2 onions
 Dressing

Shred the lettuce till very fine and keep it in a cool place. Peel and
cut raw potatoes into dice-shaped pieces and cook in boiling salted
water with the onions.

Take out when done, remove the onions, pour over the potatoes while they
are still hot a dressing of oil, vinegar, salt and pepper, and set them
to cool.

Arrange the crisp lettuce leaves on an oval earthenware dish and put the
potatoes in the center. Chopped parsley and thin slices of cold hard
cooked eggs may be added to this salad as a garnish, or sliced gherkins
and capers may be used.


                     LETTUCE AND GREEN PEPPER SALAD

 1 crisp lettuce
 2 chopped green peppers
 2 tablespoonfuls chopped chives
 Vinegar and oil
 Salt and red pepper

Shred the lettuce, put it into an earthenware bowl, sprinkle over the
chopped green peppers and chopped chives, and dress with vinegar, oil
and salt, and a dash of red pepper.


                             LOBSTER SALAD

 1 canned or boiled lobster
 4 small crisp lettuces
 1 bunch watercress
 2 hard cooked eggs
 3 skinned tomatoes
 Mayonnaise dressing
 A little pepper

Wash and dry the lettuces and the watercress. Cut the lettuce and put it
into a dainty earthenware dish; then put in a layer of the watercress, a
layer of the lobster sprinkled with pepper, and a layer of the eggs cut
in slices.

Cover with mayonnaise dressing and ornament with slices of tomato and
hard cooked egg alternately.

If preferred, sardines may replace the lobster.


                      RED CABBAGE AND CELERY SALAD

 1 crisp red cabbage
 1 cupful cut celery
 Salt and pepper
 Lemon juice and oil
 1 teaspoonful onion juice
 Mayonnaise dressing

Chop the tenderest leaves of a red cabbage very fine. Mix it with the
celery and moisten with lemon juice and oil, and season with salt and
pepper. Add the onion juice.

Allow to remain in a cool place for half an hour. Divide into dainty
casseroles and cover with mayonnaise dressing.


                           STRING BEAN SALAD

 1 quart string-beans
 2 teaspoonfuls vinegar
 1 teaspoonful onion juice
 Salt and pepper to taste
 3 tablespoonfuls olive oil

Cut the beans into inch lengths and boil till tender in boiling salted
water. Drain, and while they are hot pour over them the vinegar, onion
juice, salt, and pepper. Let get perfectly cold; just before serving mix
the olive oil with them.

Serve in white china ramequins.


                            SWEETBREAD SALAD

 1 pair sweetbreads
 ½ cupful cut celery
 Some crisp lettuce leaves
 2 tablespoonfuls lemon juice
 1 tablespoonful capers
 Mayonnaise dressing

Place the sweetbreads in scalding water, salted, for fifteen minutes;
then put into cold water to whiten and cool thoroughly. Boil for a
quarter of an hour and remove all veins and skin. Set on ice, and when
ready to use cut in small pieces and mix with the celery; put on lettuce
leaves, sprinkle the lemon juice over, and cover with mayonnaise.

Scatter the capers over the mayonnaise.


                       WATERCRESS AND APPLE SALAD

 1 bunch watercress
 1 cupful sliced tart apples
 2 tablespoonfuls cider vinegar
 6 tablespoonfuls olive oil
 1 teaspoonful sugar
 Salt and pepper to taste

Wash and dry the cress, having it perfectly fresh and crisp, and arrange
it lightly in a dainty earthenware dish. Put the apples on the top of
the cress. Make a dressing of the vinegar, oil, salt, pepper, and sugar.
Pour over the watercress and apples, serve immediately.




                            PUDDING RECIPES

 “_Who riseth from a feast with that keen appetite that he sits down_”


                             APPLE PUDDING

 8 apples
 16 cloves
 1 lemon
 ½ pint (1 cup) water
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) cornstarch
 A few drops red coloring
 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoonfuls) sugar
 Marmalade
 Mince meat

Peel and core the apples; put into each apple two cloves and as much
mince meat as it will hold. Place the apples, without touching each
other, in a buttered fireproof dish; add the remaining sugar, the grated
rind and strained juice of the lemon, and the water.

Bake in the oven, covering the casserole with its lid. Look at them
frequently, and as soon as they are tender place them in dainty
ramequins.

Stir into the liquor in the casserole the cornstarch dissolved in a
little cold water; boil for ten minutes, stirring all the time; add the
red coloring and strain it over the apples.

When quite cold garnish the tops of the apples with the marmalade.


                             APPLE SOUFFLE

 3 pints (6 cups) apple sauce
 3 tablespoonfuls melted butter
 Sugar to taste
 ½ teaspoonful nutmeg extract
 1 tablespoonful rum
 3 eggs
 Whipped and sweetened cream
 ½ teaspoonful vanilla extract
 1 cupful macaroon crumbs

Peel and core some apples and stew till tender, having three pints of
sauce. Rub the apples through a sieve, add the butter, sugar, nutmeg
extract, rum, and the yolks of eggs well beaten. When the mixture is
cool, add the whites of eggs stiffly beaten.

Butter an earthenware dish, turn the apple mixture into it, sprinkle
with the crushed macaroons, and set in the oven to bake for half an
hour. Serve hot with the whipped cream sweetened and flavored with the
vanilla extract.


                           ARROWROOT PUDDING

 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) arrowroot
 1 tablespoonful sugar
 ½ cupful currants
 ¾ pint (1½ cups) milk
 3 eggs
 1 teaspoonful rose extract

Mix the arrowroot to a smooth paste with three tablespoonfuls of the
milk in a saucepan; boil the rest of the milk and pour it on to the
arrowroot. Stir well and boil for five minutes.

[Illustration: BAKED APPLES]

Add the yolks of eggs, sugar, and rose extract mixed together. Beat the
whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir them lightly into the mixture
with the currants.

Pour into a buttered earthenware pudding dish, and bake in a moderate
oven for twenty minutes.

Dredge the top with sugar and serve quickly.


                              BAKED APPLES

 3 large apples
 A little orange marmalade
 ½ cupful whipped cream
 A few chopped nut meats
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) sugar
 1 gill (½ cup) water
 1 teaspoonful lemon juice

Core the apples and place them on a fireproof baking dish. Mix the
sugar, water, and lemon juice together, then pour them over the apples.

Bake until tender but not broken; fill the centers with the marmalade.
Beat up the cream, add one teaspoonful of sugar to it, press it on to
the top of the apples, using a forcing bag and tube.

Decorate with the chopped nuts.


                             BAKED QUINCES

 6 quinces
 4 ozs. (½ cup) sugar
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) butter
 1¼ cupfuls water

Pare and core the quinces, place them in a deep buttered earthenware
dish, and pour over them one cupful of the water. Cover and bake in the
oven until they soften a little.

Beat the butter and sugar together, spread them over the quinces, and
add the rest of the water.

Bake until they are very soft. They should be basted often with the
liquid in the dish.

These quinces are very good if served hot with ice cream. They are also
good if served cold with whipped and sweetened cream.


                         BANANAS À LA PATRICIA

 6 bananas
 ¼ lb. (½ cup) sugar
 1 saltspoonful salt
 4 teaspoonfuls lemon juice
 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter
 4 tablespoonfuls water
 3 egg whites

Mix the sugar and salt together; cut the bananas into halves, lengthways
and crossways, and put a layer in an earthenware dish; sprinkle over
half of the sugar, add two teaspoonfuls of the lemon juice and one
tablespoonful of the melted butter, then another layer of the bananas,
with the remainder of the sugar, lemon juice, butter, and water.

Bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes.

Beat up the whites of the eggs, then gradually beat into them three
tablespoonfuls of sugar and a little lemon juice.

Put them on the top of the bananas and color slightly in the oven.


                             BARLEY CUSTARD

 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) “Patent” barley
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) sugar
 1 tablespoonful butter
 Pinch of salt
 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 2 eggs
 ½ teaspoonful nutmeg extract

Put the barley and the sugar into a saucepan, add the butter, salt, and
milk; mix thoroughly and stir it over the fire till it boils; then add
the eggs well beaten, and the nutmeg extract.

Pour into a buttered fireproof dish and bake for a quarter of an hour in
a moderate oven.


                             BREAD PUDDING

 ¾ cup (3 ozs.) bread crumbs
 2 tablespoonfuls butter
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) sugar
 Few drops lemon juice
 ½ teaspoonful orange extract
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 2 eggs

Put the sugar and lemon juice into a saucepan and boil to a caramel,
then when cool pour in the milk and stand the mixture at the side of the
stove until the sugar is dissolved, but do not let it boil; fry the
bread crumbs in the butter until a golden brown, then pour on them the
prepared milk, and beat into them the yolks of eggs, the orange extract,
and the whites of eggs stiffly beaten.

Pour into a buttered fireproof dish and bake in a moderate oven for half
an hour.

Serve with hot milk.


                              BROWN BETTY

 6 large apples, peeled, cored, and sliced
 ¼ lb. (1 heaping cup) bread crumbs
 2 ozs. (½ cup) chopped suet
 1 tablespoonful butter
 3 ozs. (3 heaping tablespoonfuls) brown sugar
 ½ teaspoonful grated nutmeg

Stew the apples with one tablespoonful of the sugar and one
tablespoonful of water till tender, then rub through a sieve. Chop the
suet fine, mix it with the bread crumbs, grated nutmeg, and the rest of
the sugar.

Grease a fireproof dish, put half of this mixture at the bottom, then
put in a layer of the stewed apples, then the rest of the mixture; dot
with the butter.

Bake for half an hour in a moderate oven.


                             CHESTNUT MOLD

 ¾ lb. chestnuts
 3 egg yolks
 1 tablespoonful powdered gelatine
 1 gill (½ cup) boiling water
 2 tablespoonfuls sherry wine
 ¼ lb. (½ cup) sugar
 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 Some whipped cream

Shell the chestnuts, boil and press through a sieve. Scald the milk in a
fireproof dish, add the sugar, and the yolks of eggs, and cook until it
thickens, stirring all the time. Then add the gelatine, boiling water,
chestnut purée, sherry wine, and mix thoroughly.

Pour into dainty casseroles, chill, and serve garnished with the whipped
cream.


                             CHERRY PUDDING

 Cherries fresh or preserved
 ¼ lb. (½ cup) butter
 ¼ lb. (½ cup) sugar
 ¼ lb. (1 cup) flour
 Lemon rind
 3 eggs
 ½ pint (1 cup) whipped cream

Line a buttered earthenware dish thickly with fresh or preserved
cherries. Beat the butter and sugar till creamy, then beat in the yolks
of the eggs, then add the grated rind of half a lemon, the flour, and
the whites of the eggs stiffly beaten.

Cover with a buttered paper and steam steadily for two hours. Serve with
whipped and sweetened cream.


                          CHOCOLATE CREAM PIE

 3 squares chocolate
 ½ lb. (1 cup) sugar
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) cornstarch
 3 eggs
 Pinch salt
 ¾ pint (1½ cups) milk
 ½ teaspoonful lemon extract
 ½ teaspoonful vanilla extract
 Some pie crust

Bake a pie crust in a fireproof pie-plate. Grate the chocolate into a
casserole, stir in the sugar, cornstarch, yolks of eggs, salt, and milk.
Cook till thick, stirring constantly; then add the extracts. Pour into
the prepared crust, cover with a meringue made by beating up the whites
of the eggs to a stiff froth and adding two heaping tablespoonfuls of
sugar and half a teaspoonful of vanilla extract to them.

Set in the oven to brown.


                              COCOANUT PIE

 ½ pint (1 cup) chopped cocoanut
 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 2 eggs
 6 ozs. (¾ cup) sugar
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) cornstarch
 Pinch of salt
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) butter
 ½ teaspoonful almond extract
 1 lemon

Line a fireproof dish with pastry. Mix the cornstarch and the sugar
together, add the eggs well beaten, the milk, butter, cocoanut, salt,
almond extract, and the grated rind and the strained juice of the lemon.
Pour into the prepared dish and bake in a hot oven till firm.


                            COCOANUT PUDDING

 ½ pint (1 cup) desiccated cocoanut
 1 quart (4 cups) milk
 ¼ teaspoonful salt
 4 eggs
 4 heaping tablespoonfuls (4 ozs.) sugar
 ½ teaspoonful almond extract

Beat up the eggs and add the other ingredients to them. Turn into a
buttered fireproof dish and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour.


                         CREAM OF RICE PUDDING

 4½ heaping tablespoonfuls (4½ ozs.) rice flour
 1 heaping tablespoonful (½ oz.) powdered gelatine
 ½ pint (1 cup) whipping cream
 ½ teaspoonful vanilla extract
 1½ pints (3 cups) hot milk
 4 heaping tablespoonfuls (4 ozs.) sugar
 Grated rind 2 lemons
 1½ gills (¾ cup) cold milk
 Some stewed fruit

Mix the hot milk, sugar, and lemon rind together, then bring slowly to
the boiling point; stir in the gelatine and mix until dissolved. Stir in
the rice flour mixed with the cold milk. Stir over the fire till it
simmers for ten minutes.

Cool slightly and add the cream and the vanilla extract. Pour into a wet
earthenware jelly mould. Turn out when set and serve with stewed fruit.


                              DATE PUDDING

 ½ lb. stoned dates
 3 ozs. (⅓ cup) rice
 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 2 tablespoonfuls chopped suet
 3 ozs. (3 heaping tablespoonfuls) sugar
 3 eggs
 2 tablespoonfuls chopped citron peel
 A little grated nutmeg

Wash the rice well, and put it into a casserole with the milk. Let it
cook slowly, with the lid on, until all the milk is absorbed by the
rice. Now add the chopped dates, chopped peel, chopped suet, sugar, and
nutmeg, mix well, and add the eggs well beaten.

Pour into a buttered earthenware dish, cover with the lid, and steam
steadily for one and a half hours.


                             DRIED APRICOTS

 3 lbs. dried apricots
 Sugar to taste

Separate the fruit so that each piece will be single, then wash several
times in lukewarm water. Pour the water off; put the rinsed fruit into a
casserole; cover well with cold water, and let stand for at least twelve
hours, keeping the pan covered all the time with the lid.

After the fruit has been thoroughly soaked and has regained its natural
size, pour off this water saturated with fruit juice into another
fireproof dish, add sugar according to taste (apricots will require a
considerable quantity of sugar, peaches and apples less, prunes very
little or none, and pears none at all), and cook from twenty to
twenty-five minutes until you get a rich fruit syrup. Pour this boiling
hot syrup over the soaked fruit. Put the casserole on back of the stove
and let the fruit simmer very slowly for twenty to forty minutes,
according to the quality of it. Now remove the casserole from the stove,
keep the lid on the dish, and let it cool.

[Illustration: FRENCH PUDDING]

If cooked properly, the fruit when served must be clear, the syrup
should be rich and clear, and each piece of fruit should look as if
fresh fruit had been stewed.

The flavor of all the varieties of fruit is greatly improved by adding
some lemon or orange peel, but especially is this true of pears and
prunes.


                         CURRANT BATTER PUDDING

 ½ lb. (2 cups) flour
 6 ozs. (6 heaping tablespoonfuls) cleaned currants
 3 eggs
 1 teaspoonful baking powder
 Pinch salt
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
 Golden syrup

Beat up the eggs, sift in the flour and the salt, add the milk, and beat
for five minutes; then add the baking powder and the vanilla extract.

Pour into a well-greased casserole, sprinkle the currants over the top,
and bake in a moderate oven for one hour.

Serve with golden syrup.


                             FARINA PUDDING

 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoonfuls) farina
 1 quart (4 cups) milk
 Pinch of salt
 3 eggs
 3 ozs. (3 heaping tablespoonfuls) sugar
 ¼ teaspoonful grated nutmeg
 1 cupful Sultana raisins

Boil the milk in a fireproof dish, add the salt, and sugar, and stir in
the farina; cook, stirring frequently, for one hour.

Cool and add the eggs well beaten, the grated nutmeg, and the Sultana
raisins. Mix thoroughly and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour.


                              FIG PUDDING

 ½ lb. figs
 2 pints (4 cups) milk
 3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 ozs.) cornstarch
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) sugar
 3 eggs
 ½ teaspoonful lemon extract

Wash the figs, cut them into small pieces, then put them into a buttered
casserole. Put the cornstarch into a saucepan and moisten it with half a
cupful of the milk. Bring the rest of the milk to the boiling point,
pour it over the cornstarch, and stir till it boils for ten minutes. Add
the sugar, lemon extract, and the eggs well beaten.

Pour over the figs and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Serve
with milk or cream.


                             FRENCH PUDDING

 Some apricot jam
 Lady fingers
 Fruit juice
 Pastry
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) sugar
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 gill (½ cup) cold milk
 ½ pint (1 cup) boiling milk
 Grated rind 1 lemon
 3 eggs
 1 pint (2 cups) whipped cream
 A few chopped nut meats

Butter a casserole and line it with the pastry, wetting the edges to
keep it in place; put a layer of apricot jam at the bottom, then a thick
layer of lady fingers which have been dipped in fruit juice.

Mix the flour and sugar in a saucepan, stir in the cold milk, add the
butter and the boiling milk; stir over the fire till it thickens; let it
cool a little, then add the lemon rind and the eggs well beaten. Bake in
a moderate oven for half an hour.

Sweeten the whipped cream and put it on the top of the pudding through a
forcing bag and tube.

Decorate with the chopped nuts.


                             FRUIT PUDDING

 2½ lbs. any kind fresh fruit—gooseberries, currants, peaches, plums,
    pears, apples, raspberries, cherries, apricots, rhubarb, etc.
 2 pints (4 cups) milk
 1 tablespoonful butter
 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
 1 teaspoonful lemon extract
 Pinch salt
 Sugar
 3 eggs
 3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 ozs.) cornstarch

Stew the fruit, with sufficient sugar to sweeten, in a casserole. Mix
the cornstarch to a smooth consistency with a little of the milk. Bring
the rest of the milk to the boil, stir into it the mixed cornstarch, add
the butter, salt, extracts, and two heaping tablespoonfuls of sugar.
Boil for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time, remove from the
fire, and add the eggs well beaten.

Pour the hot mixture over the stewed fruit, then brown in a moderate
oven. This makes a delicious covering.


                             GINGER PUDDING

 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoonfuls) preserved ginger
 4 heaping tablespoonfuls chopped suet
 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoonfuls) sugar
 2 tablespoonfuls ginger syrup
 Pinch salt
 ¼ teaspoonful grated nutmeg
 3 eggs
 1 heaping teaspoonful baking powder
 ¾ pint (1½ cups) milk
 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoonfuls) flour
 4 ozs. (1 cup) bread crumbs or cake crumbs
 Ginger sauce

Chop the ginger and the suet and put them into a basin; then add the
eggs well beaten and all the other ingredients. Mix together thoroughly,
pour into a well-buttered casserole, cover with the lid or a buttered
paper, and steam for two and a half hours.

Serve with ginger sauce.

The sauce may be made as follows: Beat up the whites of two eggs to a
stiff froth, add half a cupful of whipped cream, one tablespoonful of
finely chopped ginger, and enough of the syrup to give it a strong
flavor.


                            GREEN-GAGE PUFFS

 Some stewed green-gages
 ½ lb. (2 cups) flour
 1 egg
 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
 ½ teaspoonful salt
 Some milk
 ½ teaspoonful lemon extract

Sift the flour into a basin with the baking powder and the salt, beat up
the egg, and add a little milk to it, then add them gradually with the
lemon extract to the dry ingredients, making a stiff batter. Put half a
tablespoonful of this batter into buttered earthenware cups, then put in
some stewed green-gages; put a tablespoonful of the batter on the top
and cover with a buttered paper. Steam steadily for twenty minutes.

These puffs may be baked in the oven. Any kind of stewed or fresh fruit
may be used.


                          MONTE CARLO CHERRIES

 ½ lb. large ripe cherries
 ¼ lb. lump sugar
 1 gill (¼ pint) water
 1 dessertspoonful arrowroot
 Some Kirsch

Stone the cherries, put them into a saucepan with the sugar and the
water. Let them boil gently for ten minutes. Blend the arrowroot with
two tablespoonfuls of cold water and stir it among the cherries.

Divide the cherries into small casseroles, pour a liqueur-glassful of
Kirsch on the top of each, and set alight.

Send to the table burning.


                        ORANGE MERINGUE PUDDING

 3 oranges
 4 eggs
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 ½ pint (1 cup) bread crumbs
 3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 ozs.) sugar

Bring the milk and the butter to boiling point, then pour them over the
bread crumbs; mix in the sugar and the yolks of the eggs; set aside till
cold, then mix in the grated rind and the pulp of the oranges, mix all
thoroughly together, and pour into a buttered earthenware pudding dish;
bake in a moderate oven until set.

Beat up the whites of the eggs till stiff, then gradually beat into them
three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Decorate the top of the pudding with this
meringue, and return to the oven to brown.


                             PARISIAN PEARS

 6 juicy pears
 ½ cupful macaroon crumbs
 2 tablespoonfuls cream
 1 tablespoonful sherry wine
 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
 6 rings of angelica
 6 candied violets
 2 cupfuls steamed rice

Peel the pears and stew them in a little sugar syrup flavored with
vanilla. Take them out when tender, cut them in halves, and remove the
centers.

Mix the macaroon crumbs with the cream and the sherry wine, and divide
them into the pear cavities. Cook the rice in milk till tender and
flavor it with a little vanilla extract. Line some flange ramequins with
it. Put the pear halves together and mount them, pyramid shape, on the
rice.

Crown each pear with a ring of angelica, and in the center of each ring
put a candied violet.


                             PEACH SOUFFLÉ

 6 ripe peaches
 4 heaping tablespoonfuls (4 ozs.) sugar
 ½ pint (1 cup) water
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) flour
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 ¼ pint (½ cup) milk
 3 eggs
 1 egg white

Peel the peaches, put them into a casserole with the sugar and the
water; cook till tender; then rub through a sieve.

Blend the butter and flour in a saucepan over the fire, add the milk
gradually, and stir over the fire till it boils; then add the peach
purée and boil again for three minutes.

Remove the saucepan from the fire; add the yolks of eggs one by one;
then the whites of eggs beaten up stiffly.

Put into a buttered earthenware dish and bake for half an hour.

It may be steamed for three-quarters of an hour.


                              PEAR DAINTY

 1 can preserved pears
 5 ozs. (5 heaping tablespoonfuls) sugar
 2 pints (4 cups) milk
 3 ozs. (3 heaping tablespoonfuls) cornstarch
 4 eggs
 1 teaspoonful rose extract

Mix the cornstarch to a smooth cream with a little of the milk. Bring
the rest of the milk to the boil in a fireproof dish, remove from the
fire, and stir in the mixed cornstarch.

Beat up the yolks of the eggs with three tablespoonfuls of the sugar,
and stir well into the cornstarch. Cook the whole for a quarter of an
hour, stirring all the time.

Then pour the whole into a buttered casserole, and bake in a moderate
oven till firm. Pour over it the pears and add the rose extract.

Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add the remaining sugar
to them.

Spread this meringue over the top of the pears, and return to the oven
to brown.


                              PLUM PUDDING

 ¼ lb. (1 cup) bread crumbs
 4 ozs. (1 cup) flour
 4 ozs. (1 cup) brown sugar
 1 cupful chopped suet
 1 lemon
 1 teaspoonful baking powder
 ½ teaspoonful salt
 4 eggs
 Milk to moisten
 1 cupful chopped citron peel
 ½ cupful blanched, chopped almonds
 ½ pint (1 cup) Sultana raisins
 ½ pint (1 cup) currants
 ½ pint (1 cup) seeded raisins
 1 teaspoonful powdered allspice
 ½ teaspoonful grated nutmeg
 1 teaspoonful powdered ginger
 1 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon
 1 wineglassful brandy

Beat up the eggs, add the strained juice of the lemon and all the other
ingredients, turn into a well-buttered casserole, cover, and steam
steadily for five hours.

Serve with hard sauce.


                          PRUNE AND APPLE TART

 ½ lb. stoned prunes
 1 lemon
 3 lbs. apples
 ½ lb. (1 cup) sugar
 Pastry
 1 egg

Wash and stone the prunes; peel, core, and slice the apples. Put them
into a casserole, sprinkle in the sugar and the grated rind of the
lemon.

Cover neatly with pastry, brush over the top with beaten egg, and bake
in a hot oven for about three-quarters of an hour.

Sprinkle over with sugar and serve hot or cold.


                             PRUNE PUDDING

 ½ lb. prunes
 ½ lemon
 1 tablespoonful cornstarch
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 2 eggs
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) sugar
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) currants
 1 inch cinnamon stick
 1 wineglassful port wine

Wash the prunes and stew them gently with sufficient water to cover,
adding also the sugar, cinnamon, lemon rind, and strained juice. When
tender, remove the cinnamon and lemon rind; stone the prunes and rub
them through a sieve. Crack half of the stones and chop the kernels, add
them to the prune pulp, and allow to cool a little.

Clean the currants and soak them in the wine. Mix them with the
cornstarch and add them to the prune mixture, with the yolks of eggs and
the whites stiffly beaten. Pour into a buttered earthenware dish, dredge
with sugar, and bake for half an hour in a fairly hot oven. Serve hot.


                              PUMPKIN PIE

 ½ pint (1 cup) stewed pumpkin
 4 heaping tablespoonfuls (4 ozs.) sugar
 ½ teaspoonful powdered ginger
 ½ teaspoonful powdered cinnamon
 ¼ teaspoonful grated nutmeg
 1 teaspoonful lemon extract
 2 eggs
 1 tablespoonful cornstarch
 ½ pint (1 cup) cream
 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter

Line an earthenware pie-plate with pastry. Moisten the cornstarch with
three tablespoonfuls of the cream. Bring the rest of the cream to
boiling point, stir in the cornstarch, and continue stirring until
thickened. Remove from the fire, add the eggs well beaten and all the
other ingredients. Turn into the prepared pie-plate and bake in a
moderate oven for about one hour.


                            RHUBARB MERINGUE

 1 lb. pink rhubarb
 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoonfuls) sugar
 4 eggs
 1 lemon
 2 tablespoonfuls sugar

Wash the rhubarb and cut it into inch lengths; stew it with the sugar
till tender; strain the juice into a basin, and rub the fruit through a
sieve.

Reduce the juice to half a cupful, mix it with the fruit purée, add the
yolks of the eggs well beaten and the grated rind of the lemon. Turn
into a buttered fireproof dish and bake for half an hour.

Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, then beat into them two
tablespoonfuls of sugar; spread over the pudding, dust over with sugar,
and return to the oven for ten minutes to set the meringue.


                              RICE PUDDING

 ½ lb. (1 heaping cup) rice
 2 quarts (8 cups) milk
 ½ lb. (1 cup) sugar
 1 teaspoonful salt
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 ¼ teaspoonful grated nutmeg
 1 teaspoonful rose extract

Wash the rice and soak it in one quart of the milk for one hour. Add the
rest of the milk, the sugar, salt, butter, nutmeg, and rose extract.
Turn into a buttered earthenware dish and bake slowly for two hours.


                      STEWED APRICOTS WITH CUSTARD

 12 apricots
 4 tablespoonfuls sugar
 4 eggs
 1 pint (2 cups) cream
 1 gill (¼ pint) rum
 A few slices sponge cake
 ½ pint (1 cup) hot water

Peel the apricots and cut them into halves, removing the stones. Put
them into a casserole with two tablespoonfuls of the sugar and the
water. Simmer till tender.

Put the sponge cake into an earthenware dish, lay the apricots on them.
Beat up the eggs with the rest of the sugar, add the cream to them, then
pour them into a double boiler. Stir over the fire till quite smooth,
then add the rum.

Pour this over the apricots and serve hot.


                       STRAWBERRY BATTER PUDDING

 1 pint strawberries
 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 2 tablespoonfuls melted butter
 1½ pints (3 cups) flour
 3 eggs
 1 teaspoonful baking powder
 ½ teaspoonful salt
 1 teaspoonful strawberry extract
 Hard sauce

Add the milk gradually to the flour, add the eggs well beaten, salt,
baking powder, and butter. Dredge the strawberries with flour, stir them
into the batter, add the strawberry extract, and turn into a buttered
earthenware dish. Cover and steam for three hours.

Serve with hard sauce.


                          STRAWBERRY CUSTARDS

 5 eggs
 ½ lb. (1 cup) ripe strawberries or strawberry jam
 ½ lemon
 1 teaspoonful strawberry extract
 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoonfuls) sugar
 Few drops red coloring

Remove the green stalks from the strawberries, place the berries in a
basin, beat until quite liquid, then add the yolks of the eggs well
beaten, sugar, strained lemon juice, and strawberry extract.

Pour the mixture into a fireproof dish, stand it in a saucepan of
boiling water, and stir it over the fire till it thickens: it must not
boil. Allow to get cold then add the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs,
stir lightly till all is well mixed.

Pour into earthenware custard cups, and serve cold decorated with a ripe
strawberry on the top of each custard.


                            VANILLA CUSTARD

 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 4 eggs
 4 heaping tablespoonfuls (4 ozs.) sugar
 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract

Beat the eggs and the sugar together, then add the milk and the vanilla
extract. Divide the mixture into buttered earthenware custard cups,
cover with buttered papers, and steam gently for half an hour.


                           VERMICELLI PUDDING

 ¼ lb. vermicelli
 1 pint (2 cups) boiling milk
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) butter
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) sugar
 2 tablespoonfuls finely chopped blanched almonds
 3 eggs
 Grated rind 1 lemon
 ¼ teaspoonful grated nutmeg

Crush the vermicelli in the hand till it is in quite short pieces. Put
it into the boiling milk, then add the butter, and stir over the fire
till it becomes thick; this will take a quarter of an hour. Remove from
the fire, add the sugar, almonds, grated rind of lemon, nutmeg, and the
yolks of the eggs, stir all to mix thoroughly, then add the stiffly
beaten whites and stir them in gently. Pour into a well-buttered
earthenware dish, cover with the lid or a buttered paper, and steam for
one hour. Serve with sweet sauce.

The pudding can be baked in a moderate oven till it is nicely browned.
Serve with cream.


                             WALNUT PUDDING

 16 walnuts
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) butter
 1 teaspoonful almond extract
 ½ teaspoonful vanilla extract
 Pinch salt
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls browned bread crumbs
 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 3 eggs

Blanch the walnuts, then chop them finely, and mix with the bread
crumbs; put them into a fireproof dish with the milk, and allow to boil
up; then simmer for ten minutes.

Remove from the fire, and when cool stir in the yolks of the eggs one by
one, add the salt, extracts, and the sugar; mix thoroughly. Beat up the
whites to a stiff froth, and fold them in gently.

Bake for half an hour in a moderate oven.




                            INVALID RECIPES

                 “_Eat in measure and defy the doctor_”


                              APPLE PURÉE

 1 lb. apples
 1 teaspoonful butter
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) sugar
 1 teaspoonful grated lemon rind
 1 bay leaf
 1 tablespoonful orange flower water
 2 egg whites

Peel, core, and slice the apples; put them into a casserole, with the
butter, sugar, lemon rind, bay leaf, and orange flower water.

Put the cover on the casserole and cook slowly to a pulp; rub through a
sieve, and with it about three parts fill some small casseroles.

Beat up the eggs, then add two tablespoonfuls of sugar to them.

Decorate the purée with this meringue and serve hot.


                               BAKED MILK

 1 quart (4 cups) milk
 Fresh or stewed fruit

Baked milk is often recommended as a dish for invalids. Put the milk
into an earthenware jar, cover it closely, and allow it to bake very
slowly for several hours in a moderately hot oven.

It should be thick and of a creamy consistency.

Serve with fresh or stewed fruit.


                              BARLEY GRUEL

 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) pearl barley
 1 strip lemon rind
 1 quart (4 cups) water
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) sugar
 1 wineglassful sherry wine

Wash the barley thoroughly; put it into a casserole with the water and
the lemon rind and simmer until reduced to half the quantity; strain and
add the sugar, reheat in the casserole, and add the wine.


                         BEEF TEA EN CASSEROLE

 1 lb. lean beef
 1 pint (2 cups) water
 Salt

Cut the beef into pieces, then shred it with a sharp knife, keeping back
the fat and sinews; put the shredded meat into a casserole with a pinch
of salt and the cold water; cover and allow it to stand in a cool place
for two hours; then set it in the oven for two hours.

Remove the fat and serve hot.


                           CALF’S SWEETBREADS

 2 calf’s sweetbreads
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 ½ pint (1 cup) white sauce
 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
 Salt and pepper

Wash the sweetbreads and soak them in cold water for one hour. Drain
them and put them into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and bring to
the boil. Lift them into another saucepan, cover with the milk, let them
simmer for twenty minutes. Trim them and remove all the fat and gristle.

Warm the sauce in a casserole, season it nicely, put in the sweetbreads
cut in slices, and cook slowly until they are tender.

Sprinkle the chopped parsley on the top and serve hot.


                             CHICKEN PANADE

 1 chicken breast
 2 tablespoonfuls cream
 Salt and pepper

Cut the chicken into small pieces and shred it finely; put this into an
earthenware dish or jar with as much water as will cover it, add a pinch
of salt, and cover with paper; stand the jar in a pan of boiling water,
allowing the water to come within an inch of the top; cook in this way
for two hours; strain the liquid from the chicken, pound it thoroughly
and rub it through a sieve, using the liquid to help it through; reheat,
add the cream, and add a little more seasoning if required.


                           COLD LEMON PUDDING

 1 lemon
 ½ pint (1 cup) water
 1 tablespoonful arrowroot
 1 tablespoonful sugar
 2 egg whites

Grate the lemon into a fireproof dish, add the water, and bring to
boiling point. Mix the arrowroot with the sugar and strained lemon
juice, then pour into the boiling water and stir over the fire till
thick.

Beat up the whites of eggs and stir them in lightly.

Serve cold in a dainty casserole.


                             FRIAR’S OMELET

 5 apples
 4 tablespoonfuls sugar
 ½ teaspoonful powdered cinnamon
 1 tablespoonful butter
 5 eggs
 2 tablespoonfuls brown bread crust

Peel, core, and slice the apples into a saucepan, add the sugar, butter,
and cinnamon. Cook till tender and rub through a sieve. Add the bread
crumbs, yolks of the eggs, and the whites of the eggs stiffly beaten.

Turn into a buttered fireproof dish, dredge the top with sugar, bake in
a moderate oven for twenty minutes.

Serve hot.


                            INVALID PUDDING

 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 tablespoonful sugar
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) rice flour
 2 egg whites
 2 tablespoonfuls cream
 Little grated nutmeg

Put the milk, butter, sugar, and grated nutmeg into a saucepan and bring
to boiling point. Mix the rice flour with the cream and stir into the
boiling milk.

Allow to cool for a minute, then add the whites of eggs stiffly beaten.

Pour into a buttered fireproof dish and bake quickly.


                              JELLIED FISH

 1 flounder
 ½ pint (1 cup) water
 Salt and pepper
 1 heaping tablespoonful powdered gelatine
 1 teaspoonful lemon juice
 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley

Skin and fillet the flounder. Season the fillets with salt and pepper,
roll them up tightly, lay in a small fireproof dish, sprinkle the
chopped parsley over them, add the lemon juice and the gelatine mixed
with the water.

Bake for half an hour in a moderate oven.

Serve cold garnished with parsley.


                               MILK SOUP

 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 1 celery stalk
 1 egg
 Salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste
 ½ cupful soft bread crumbs

Chop the celery and put it into an earthenware pan, add the bread crumbs
and the milk; allow it to simmer for a quarter of an hour, then strain
it.

Beat up the egg and add it to the soup; reheat it but do not allow it to
boil again.

Season nicely with salt, pepper, and nutmeg.


                              MULLED MILK

 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) sugar
 2 egg yolks
 1 inch cinnamon stick

Put the milk and cinnamon stick into a fireproof pan, bring to boiling
point, and boil for four minutes.

Mix the yolks of the eggs, sugar, and three tablespoonfuls of cold milk
together; strain the hot milk and add it to the eggs, then stir it over
the fire until it begins to thicken—it must not boil; pour it several
times from one earthenware pitcher to another.


                              OYSTER SOUP

 12 oysters
 2 tablespoonfuls butter
 2 tablespoonfuls flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) oyster liquor
 ½ pint (1 cup) cream
 Salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste
 4 tablespoonfuls milk
 Toast points

Strain the liquor from the oysters, rinse them, and cut them into four
pieces. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, oyster liquor,
seasonings, and cream, bring to boiling point and pour over the oysters
in petites marmites.

Serve with toast points.


                           RASPBERRY SOUFFLÉ

 ½ pint (1 cup) raspberries
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) sugar
 4 tablespoonfuls water
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 3 tablespoonfuls cream
 2 eggs

Put the raspberries into a saucepan with the sugar and the water; stir
over the fire with a wooden spoon till the fruit is tender, then rub
through a sieve; return to the pan, add the butter, flour, and cream;
stir until it boils, remove from the fire, add the yolks of eggs and the
whites stiffly beaten.

Turn into a buttered earthenware dish and bake in a moderate oven for
twenty minutes.

Serve at once.


                               SAGO GRUEL

 2 tablespoonfuls sago
 1 tablespoonful sugar
 1 pint (2 cups) water
 ¼ teaspoonful salt
 1 wineglassful sherry wine
 Juice ½ lemon
 Grated nutmeg and ginger to taste

Put the sago and water into a casserole, add the salt, and let it stand
for two hours to soften; then boil it, stirring constantly, until it is
thick, add the wine, sugar, strained lemon juice, ginger, and nutmeg.

This is an excellent gruel for invalids.


                               SAGO JELLY

 4 heaping tablespoonfuls (4 ozs.) sago
 1 quart (4 cups) water
 2 tablespoonfuls maple syrup
 2 egg whites
 1 gill (¼ cup) whipped cream

Wash the sago, put it into a casserole with the water and let it simmer
for three hours; as it boils add the maple syrup.

Divide it into small casseroles. Beat up the cream with the whites of
eggs stiffly beaten, and decorate the jelly with them.


                           SAVORY BEEF JELLY

 ¾ lb. lean beef
 1 pint (2 cups) cold water
 Salt
 10 white whole peppers
 1 clove
 2 parsley sprigs
 1 bay leaf
 1 blade mace
 1 celery stalk
 1 tablespoonful powdered gelatine
 4 tablespoonfuls boiling water

Scrape the beef with a sharp knife, and remove any fat and skin; put it
into an earthenware dish with the cold water and a pinch of salt. Tie
the seasonings and the vegetables in a small piece of muslin and add
them to the beef; cover tightly and cook slowly in a moderate oven for
three hours.

Remove the lid two or three times during the cooking, and stir the
contents of the jar. When cooked, strain and allow the liquid to cool,
when the fat should be removed.

Dissolve the gelatine in the boiling water and add it to the jelly.
Divide it into dainty stoneware dishes.


                             SAVORY CUSTARD

 1 gill (¼ pint) beef tea
 1 egg
 Salt

Beat up the egg, add to it the beef tea and a pinch of salt; pour into a
buttered earthenware custard cup, cover with a buttered paper, and steam
until set.


                             TAPIOCA CREAMS

 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 1 tablespoonful (½ oz.) tapioca
 1 tablespoonful (½ oz.) sugar
 2 egg yolks
 3 tablespoonfuls cream
 ¼ teaspoonful almond extract
 A little red currant jelly

Soak the tapioca in the milk for one hour, then stir over the fire till
the tapioca is quite clear, beat up the yolks with the sugar, add to the
mixture with the extract, and stir until well mixed. Add the cream.

Remove from the fire and divide into dainty earthenware dishes.

Serve with a little red currant jelly on the top of each.


                            TRIPE FRICASSÉE

 1½ lbs. fine tripe
 1 small onion
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 1 egg yolk
 A little grated nutmeg
 1 tablespoonful cornstarch
 Salt and pepper to taste

Prepare the raw tripe by thoroughly scraping and scalding after it has
been procured cleansed; then cut it in small pieces, and cover it with
cold water; let it boil for a quarter of an hour, throw away the water,
and wash the tripe once more. Then put it in a casserole covered with
cold water; let it boil, then allow it to simmer for four and a half
hours; add the onion, and allow it to cook for a quarter of an hour
longer.

Take out the onion then and chop it up finely. Drain all the water from
the tripe, and replace it with the milk; add the chopped onion, and let
it simmer for ten minutes. Now stir in the cornstarch moistened with a
little cold milk, add the seasonings, and stir till it boils; allow to
cook for five minutes, stirring all the time. Remove it from the fire,
and add the yolk of egg; mix thoroughly, and serve hot.




                             CHEESE RECIPES

   “_Cheese, it is a peevish elf, it digests all things but itself_”


                              BAKED CHEESE

 ½ pint (1 cup) grated cheese
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 1 gill (½ cup) milk
 3 eggs
 Salt and pepper to taste

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, salt and pepper. When
it comes to boiling point remove from the fire, then add the yolks of
the eggs, the cheese, and the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff
froth.

Pour into a well-buttered fireproof dish, and bake until brown.

Serve hot.


                            CHEESE AND BREAD

 ½ pint (1 cup) grated cheese
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 ½ pint (1 cup) bread crumbs
 1 heaping teaspoonful butter
 3 eggs
 Seasoning of salt and red pepper

Scald the milk and butter together; remove from the stove, and add the
cheese, bread crumbs, and seasonings. Beat up the eggs and add them
lightly.

Pour into a buttered fireproof dish and bake for half an hour.

Serve at once.


                             CHEESE CREAMS

 2 heaping tablespoonfuls grated cheese
 ½ pint (1 cup) half-set aspic jelly
 ½ pint (1 cup) whipping cream
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 Salt, pepper, and red pepper to taste

Beat up the cream till stiff and stir into it the cheese; add the aspic
jelly and the seasonings. Divide into china ramequins; when set,
sprinkle over with a little chopped parsley.

Serve very cold.


                            CHEESE AND RICE

 2 cupfuls (½ lb.) grated cheese
 1 gill (½ cup) boiled rice
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) flour
 Seasoning of salt and pepper
 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 A few bread crumbs

Blend the butter and flour together in a saucepan over the fire; then
gradually add the milk, stirring constantly, and cook for five minutes.
Remove from the fire and season nicely with salt and pepper.

Put the rice into a buttered fireproof dish, then sprinkle in the cheese
and pour in the sauce, sprinkle a few bread crumbs on the top, then a
little grated cheese, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes.


              CHEESE WITH NOODLES, SPAGHETTI, OR MACARONI

 1 cupful (¼ lb.) grated cheese
 3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 ozs.) butter
 1 package medium noodles
 Salt and paprika to taste

Boil the noodles in plenty of boiling salted water for twenty minutes,
then drain, add the butter, cheese, salt, and paprika.

Stir over the fire in a fireproof dish till the cheese and butter are
melted. Serve hot.


                            CHEESE APPETIZER

 2 cupfuls (½ lb.) cheese
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 can tomato soup
 2 eggs
 Some crackers
 1 saltspoonful salt
 ½ saltspoonful paprika

Cut the cheese into small pieces, then melt it in a fireproof dish, add
the butter, seasonings, and tomato soup. When well mixed, add the eggs
well beaten.

Stir until it begins to thicken, and serve at once on buttered crackers.


                              CHEESE SALAD

 ½ lb. American cheese
 ½ pint (1 cup) chopped cooked chicken
 ¼ pint (½ cup) chopped stuffed olives
 2 hard cooked eggs
 1 teaspoonful French mustard
 3 tablespoonfuls vinegar
 4 tablespoonfuls olive oil
 Salt and red pepper to taste

Chop the cheese and mix it with the chicken and olives. Rub soft the
yolks of the eggs, add the mustard, the vinegar, the oil, and seasonings
to taste.

Pour the sauce over the salad in ramequins and garnish with the whites
of the eggs cut into small pieces.


                           CHEESE SANDWICHES

 1½ lbs. grated cream cheese
 1 large egg
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 1 tablespoonful cornstarch
 3 canned red peppers
 ½ teaspoonful lemon juice
 Salt and red pepper to taste
 Buttered slices of bread

Cook all the ingredients over the fire in a casserole for five minutes.
Spread on the bread and toast them.

Serve hot.


                            CHEESE TARTLETS

 4 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) grated cheese
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 2 eggs
 ¼ teaspoonful salt
 Seasoning of pepper and paprika
 Pastry

Roll the pastry out thinly, and line some small thin casserole dishes
with it. Blend the butter and flour together in a saucepan over the
fire, add the milk, stir till it boils and thickens; then remove the pan
from the fire.

Add the yolks of the eggs one by one, mixing each one thoroughly; add
the cheese, the seasonings, and the whites of eggs stiffly beaten.
Divide into the prepared dishes and bake in the oven for fifteen
minutes.

Serve at once.


                          CHEESE AND POTATOES

 2 ozs. (½ cupful) grated cheese
 1 cupful mashed potatoes
 2 egg yolks
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 tablespoonful chopped olives
 Salt and pepper to taste
 1 tablespoonful finely chopped parsley

Beat up the yolks of eggs, melt the butter and add it to them, with the
parsley, potatoes, cheese, pickles, and seasonings.

Turn into a buttered fireproof dish, brush over with the whites stiffly
beaten, mark with a fork or knife, and bake in a hot oven till brown.


                            CHEESE AND CORN

 1 cupful (¼ lb.) grated cheese
 1 can corn
 4 soda crackers
 1 egg
 1 gill (½ cup) milk
 Salt and paprika to taste
 1 heaping teaspoonful butter

Roll the crackers, add the egg well beaten, butter, cheese, seasonings,
milk, and corn. Mix well and turn into a buttered fireproof dish.

Bake for thirty minutes in a hot oven.


                             CHEESE FONDUE

 ½ lb. (2 cupfuls) grated cheese
 1 saltspoonful dry mustard
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 ¼ lb. (1 cup) fine bread crumbs
 2 eggs
 A dust of red pepper

Melt the butter in a fireproof dish, add the milk, bread crumbs, cheese,
mustard, and seasonings.

Stir constantly for five minutes, and then add the eggs well beaten.

Serve hot.


                            CHEESE DAINTIES

 3 heaping tablespoonfuls Parmesan cheese
 4 eggs
 ¼ pint (½ cup) milk
 Salt, pepper, and red pepper to taste

Bring the milk to boiling point, pour it over the eggs well beaten, add
the cheese, salt, pepper, and red pepper; pour into some buttered
cocottes or ramequins.

Stand the cases in a pan, pour in some hot water; place in the oven and
cook till set.

Garnish with parsley and serve hot.


                            CHEESE CUSTARDS

 4 ozs. (1 cup) grated cheese
 2 eggs
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 Salt and pepper to taste
 A few sprigs parsley

Mix the eggs and milk in a saucepan over the fire, stir them till they
thicken slightly, remove from the fire, and add the cheese, salt, and
pepper.

Divide into small china ramequin cases and bake until brown.

Serve with a small sprig of parsley in the center of each.


                          CHEESE AND MACARONI

 4 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) grated cheese
 ¼ lb. macaroni
 1 gill (¼ pint) stock
 1 gill (¼ pint) milk
 1 bay leaf
 1 slice onion
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 1 tablespoonful flour
 Salt and pepper to taste
 A few bread crumbs

Break up the macaroni into short pieces, put it into a saucepan of
boiling salted water, add one teaspoonful of butter, and boil quickly
for half an hour. Put the stock, bay leaf, onion, and milk into a
saucepan and bring to boiling point. Blend the butter and flour together
in a saucepan over the fire; add the stock strained; stir till it boils,
put in the macaroni and the grated cheese; mix well and season with the
salt and pepper.

Butter a gratin dish, sprinkle it over with bread crumbs and grated
cheese, pour in the mixture, sprinkle over with some more bread crumbs
and grated cheese, put a few pieces of butter here and there on the top,
and bake in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour.

Serve hot in the dish in which it was cooked.


                             CHEESE PUDDING

 2 cupfuls (½ lb.) grated cheese
 1 teaspoonful flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) hot milk
 1 heaping teaspoonful butter
 2 eggs
 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs
 Salt and pepper to taste

Put the cheese into a bowl, add the flour, salt and pepper, bread
crumbs, milk, butter, the yolks of the eggs and the whites well beaten.

Mix gently, pour into a buttered earthenware dish, and bake for a
quarter of an hour in a moderate oven.

Serve hot.


                            CHEESE SOUFFLÉS

 6 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 ozs.) grated cheese
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 level tablespoonful flour
 2 eggs
 1 gill (½ cup) milk
 Salt and pepper to taste

Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, and stir till it cooks
for three minutes; remove from the fire, add the yolks of eggs well
beaten, the cheese, seasonings, and the whites stiffly beaten; divide
into buttered ramequins, and bake for ten minutes.

Serve quickly.


                          CHEESE AND TOMATOES

 3 tablespoonfuls grated cheese
 4 ripe tomatoes
 2 eggs
 1 tablespoonful butter
 Salt and paprika to taste

Skin the tomatoes and rub them through a sieve, add the cheese, salt,
paprika, and eggs well beaten.

Melt the butter in an earthenware dish, pour in the mixture, and bake in
a moderate oven for ten minutes.

Serve immediately.


                              CHEESE CAKE

 1 lb. pot cheese
 ½ lb. (2 cups) flour
 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
 Juice ½ lemon
 6 ozs. (¾ cup) sugar
 6 ozs. (¾ cup) butter
 1 gill (½ cup) milk
 1 egg
 ½ cupful cleaned currants

Rub half a cupful of the butter into the flour, add half a cupful of the
sugar, baking powder, egg well beaten, milk, and strained juice of
lemon.

Line a buttered baking earthenware dish with this paste. Mix the cheese
smoothly with the rest of the sugar and butter. Spread this filling into
the prepared casserole.

Sprinkle the currants on the top and bake in a hot oven for half an
hour.


                            SCALLOPED CHEESE

 ½ pint (1 cup) grated cheese
 3 eggs
 1½ pints (3 cups) milk
 ¼ teaspoonful mustard
 Salt and red pepper to taste
 4 slices bread
 1 tablespoonful butter

Remove the crusts from the bread after it has been spread with the
butter. Place the bread in a fireproof dish, then sprinkle in the
cheese. Beat up the eggs, add the milk and seasonings; pour them over
the bread and cheese.

Allow to remain for half an hour.

Bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes.


                             WELSH RAREBIT

 ½ pint (1 cup) grated American cheese
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 3 tablespoonfuls of milk, cream, or ale
 1 teaspoonful made mustard
 Salt and red pepper to taste
 1 egg
 Some hot buttered toast or crackers

Melt the butter in a casserole, add the seasonings, and the cheese. When
melted, add the milk, cream or ale; stir vigorously till smooth, add the
egg well beaten quickly and pour over the buttered toast or crackers.




                              EGG RECIPES

                    “_What, all my pretty chickens_”


                              CURRIED EGGS

 6 hard cooked eggs
 1 cupful plain boiled rice
 1 onion
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 heaping teaspoonful flour
 2 teaspoonfuls curry powder
 1 teaspoonful salt
 1 teaspoonful lemon juice
 ½ pint (1 cup) stock or water

Chop the onion and fry it for a few minutes in the butter, add the
flour, curry powder, salt, lemon juice, and water; allow to cook slowly
for fifteen minutes in a casserole.

Add four of the eggs cut in quarters, and garnish with the other two
eggs.

Serve in the casserole.


                            EGGS IN COCOTTES

 4 eggs
 ½ teaspoonful onion juice
 ½ teaspoonful salt
 1 saltspoonful white pepper
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 Some bread sauce

Break the eggs into a bowl, add the onion juice, salt, and pepper. Beat
only until thoroughly blended, then add gradually the milk. Divide
equally into six well-buttered cocottes or soufflé cases. Stand them in
a pan half filled with hot water and bake in a moderate oven for twenty
minutes, or until firm to the touch.

Serve with bread sauce.


                              EGG PUDDING

 5 eggs
 2 ozs. (¼ cup) sugar
 2 ozs. (½ cup) flour
 2 ozs. (¼ cup) butter
 1 pint (2 cups) boiling milk
 3 tablespoonfuls cold milk
 ½ teaspoonful vanilla extract
 Cream sauce

Mix the sugar and the flour with the cold milk, stir them into the
boiling milk, and cook until thick and very smooth; remove from the fire
and add the butter. Beat in the yolks of the eggs, the extract, and mix
in gently the whites of the eggs stiffly beaten. Turn into a buttered
fireproof dish and bake for about thirty-five minutes. Serve hot with
cream sauce.

To make the sauce: Beat half a cupful of butter with one cupful of
powdered sugar, then add two tablespoonfuls of cream and half a
teaspoonful of vanilla extract.


                              EGG TARTLETS

 5 eggs
 6 tablespoonfuls chopped cooked ham
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls white bread crumbs
 ½ gill (4 tablespoonfuls) milk
 1 tablespoonful butter
 3 tablespoonfuls browned bread crumbs
 Salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg

Chop the ham finely, put it into a basin, add the white bread crumbs,
the milk, and seasoning of salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Butter some
ramequins, sprinkle them with the browned bread crumbs, and line them
neatly with the ham paste. Break an egg into each, put one or two small
pieces of butter on the top, sprinkle over with a little pepper, and
bake for twelve minutes.

Serve hot.


                            EGGS IN TOMATOES

 4 eggs
 4 firm tomatoes
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
 Salt, pepper, and dust of paprika

Wipe each tomato and cut a round piece from the stalk end. Remove enough
pulp to leave room for one egg dropped carefully into each, first
dusting the inside of the tomatoes with salt, pepper, and paprika.

Put a small piece of butter on the top of each egg; place the tomatoes
in small well-buttered fireproof dishes and bake until the whites of
eggs are lightly set.

Sprinkle with salt, pepper, and parsley.

Serve hot.


                           EGGS WITH SPINACH

 4 or 5 eggs
 3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 ozs.) butter
 ½ peck spinach (2 lbs.)
 Salt and pepper

Wash the spinach carefully to remove all dirt and grit, then put it into
a saucepan, put on the cover, and cook for ten minutes. Add the butter,
salt, and pepper to taste; allow it to cook slowly for one hour in its
own juices.

Divide it into buttered ramequins, making it into neat little nests.
Drop an egg into each of these nests, and bake for eight minutes in a
moderately heated oven.

The whites of the eggs should harden, but the yolks should be soft.

Serve very hot.


                                EGG SOUP

 4 egg yolks
 ¼ lb. (½ cup) butter
 1 onion
 1 tablespoonful flour
 1½ pints (3 cups) water
 Salt and pepper
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 Toast points

Chop the onion and fry it for a few minutes in the butter, stir in the
flour, cook a minute, then add the water, bring to boiling point, and
season with parsley, salt, and pepper.

Beat up the yolks of the eggs, add them off the fire, stirring till all
is mixed.

Have the toast points in petites marmites, pour in the soup, and serve
as quickly as possible.


                        EGG AND MUSHROOM RAGOUT

 3 hard cooked eggs
 ¼ lb. mushrooms
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 pint (1 cup) stock
 1 teaspoonful flour
 Salt and pepper
 Little chopped parsley

Peel the mushrooms and fry them for a minute in the hot butter in a
fireproof dish, add the flour, stock, salt, and pepper. Boil for three
minutes, add two of the eggs cut lengthways.

Garnish with the other egg and the parsley.


                           EGGS IN RAMEQUINS

 5 hard cooked eggs
 ¼ lb. mushrooms
 3 tablespoonfuls butter
 1 pint (2 cups) white sauce
 ½ cupful cooked chopped ham
 A few bread crumbs
 ⅓ cupful melted butter
 Salt and pepper to season

Peel the mushrooms and cut them into small pieces; cook them in the
three tablespoonfuls of butter till the butter is absorbed, then add the
white sauce and allow to simmer for a quarter of an hour. Add the ham
and the cooked eggs, cut in slices; season nicely, and turn into
well-buttered ramequins, cover with some bread crumbs mixed with the
melted butter, and heat thoroughly in the oven.

Serve hot.


                            EGGS WITH CREAM

 6 eggs
 ½ pint (1 cup) cream
 Salt and pepper
 ¼ lb. thinly cut bacon
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter

Spread the butter on the bottom of a shallow fireproof dish, pour in the
cream, sprinkle in a little salt and pepper, break the eggs carefully
into the dish; partly cook the bacon in front of the fire, then place it
on the top of the eggs.

Bake for ten minutes and serve hot.

This dish may be prepared in small casseroles, allowing one egg to each
dish.


                           EGGS WITH MACARONI

 4 hard cooked eggs
 ¼ lb. spaghetti
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (1 oz.) grated cheese
 ½ pint (1 cup) white sauce
 1 tablespoonful finely chopped parsley
 Salt and pepper

Break the spaghetti into a saucepan of fast boiling water, add one
teaspoonful of butter, and cook it until tender, then drain. Thickly
butter a fireproof dish, put in a layer of spaghetti, then a layer of
sliced hard cooked eggs; dust these with a little salt and pepper.

[Illustration: ASSORTED SMALL CASSEROLES]

[Illustration: EGG AND POTATO PIE]

Next put in more spaghetti, then more slices of egg, and so on until the
dish is full, ending with the spaghetti. Pour the white sauce over this
and sprinkle the cheese on it. Put the rest of the butter in little
lumps on the top.

Bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Decorate with the chopped parsley
and sliced eggs.


                           EGG AND POTATO PIE

 5 hard cooked eggs
 ½ pint (1 cup) white sauce
 10 boiled potatoes
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 3 tablespoonfuls hot cream
 Seasoning salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg
 Chopped parsley

Shell the eggs and cut them into slices not too thin. Mash the potatoes
and mix them with the butter and the cream. Season with salt, pepper,
and a very little nutmeg.

Line the bottom of an earthenware dish with this and place in it a layer
of the sliced eggs, scatter some chopped parsley over them, and cover
with the white sauce. Continue alternate layers of potato, egg, sauce,
and parsley until the quantities are used.

Cover the top with the mashed potatoes; smooth carefully over and mark
with a fork; brush with beaten egg; bake for half an hour in a
moderately hot oven.


                             EGGS AU GRATIN

 6 hard cooked eggs
 2 tablespoonfuls grated cheese
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 ½ pint (¼ cup) milk
 3 tablespoonfuls cream
 Salt, red pepper, and white pepper to taste
 2 raw egg yolks
 Toast points

Divide the eggs into halves lengthways and place them in a buttered
gratin dish. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, stir till
boiling, then add one tablespoonful of the cheese and the seasonings.
Cook for five minutes, remove from the fire, add the yolks of eggs, mix
well, and pour over the hard cooked eggs. Sprinkle with the rest of the
cheese and brown in the oven.

Garnish with the toast points and serve hot.


                             EGGS AND BACON

 ¼ lb. bacon
 ¼ lb. mushrooms
 4 poached eggs
 1 tablespoonful finely chopped parsley
 2 tablespoonfuls bread crumbs
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 Salt and pepper

Fry the bacon, then chop it and put it into a gratin dish. Peel the
mushrooms and fry them lightly in butter, chop them, and lay them on the
top of the bacon, sprinkle in a little salt and pepper. Poach and drain
the eggs, and lay them on the top of the mushrooms. Put the parsley,
butter, and bread crumbs on the top and bake for six minutes.

Serve hot.


                              GOLDEN EGGS

 4 hard cooked eggs
 1 tablespoonful vinegar
 1 egg yolk
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 Salt and pepper
 Some croûtons

Put the vinegar into a casserole and boil it till it almost evaporates,
then add the butter and the flour, mix well, add the milk, stir till it
boils, and cook for five minutes, stirring all the time; then add the
raw yolk of egg, salt and pepper to taste, stir for a few minutes
longer. Cut the whites of hard boiled eggs in strips, add them to the
mixture. Turn out on to a shallow earthenware dish, rub the yolks
through a sieve on the top. Put the croûtons round the edge.


                            SCOTCH WOODCOCK

 3 hard cooked eggs
 3 tablespoonfuls grated cheese
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) flour
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 1 gill (½ cup) milk
 1 gill (½ cup) stock
 ½ teaspoonful anchovy extract
 Salt, pepper, and red pepper
 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
 2 rounds buttered toast

Place one round of toast in a buttered fireproof dish. Chop the whites
of the eggs and mix them with one tablespoonful of the cheese and
seasoning of salt, pepper, and red pepper; place the other round of
toast on the top, put in the oven to keep hot.

Blend the butter and flour in a saucepan over the fire; stir in the
milk, stock, anchovy, the remainder of the cheese, and seasoning. Cook
for a few minutes and pour over the toast.

Divide the toast into squares, garnish with the chopped parsley and the
yolks of eggs rubbed through a sieve.

Serve hot.


                     SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH MUSHROOMS

 4 eggs
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 8 small mushrooms
 1 tablespoonful cream
 1 slice buttered toast
 Salt, pepper, and red pepper

Wash and peel the mushrooms, chop them finely, and fry them in a little
melted butter. Beat up the eggs, and pour them into a saucepan; add the
cream, mushrooms, butter, and seasonings. Stir over a quick fire until
the eggs are lightly set.

Have the toast neatly trimmed ready on a hot fireproof dish, put the egg
mixture on the top of it, and serve immediately.


                              SHRIMP EGGS

 6 eggs
 18 large picked shrimps
 3 heaping tablespoonfuls finely chopped cooked tongue
 1 tablespoonful cream
 2 tablespoonfuls sherry wine
 1 pint (2 cups) good thick gravy
 A few drops red coloring
 Some parsley
 Salt and pepper

Butter some small casseroles and break into each an egg; put into the
oven and let cook, but they must not harden. Put the gravy into a
saucepan, add the sherry wine, the tongue, and the shrimps, simmer for
ten minutes, but do not allow it to boil.

Season nicely, add the cream and red coloring; pour over the eggs, place
a sprig of parsley in the center of each, and serve at once.


                             SOUFFLÉ OMELET

 6 eggs
 3 heaping tablespoonfuls (3 ozs.) sugar
 1 tablespoonful cornstarch
 ½ teaspoonful rose extract
 Some raspberry preserves

Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar thoroughly together; then add
the cornstarch and the rose extract. Add a pinch of salt to the whites
of eggs and beat them up stiffly. Mix them carefully with the yolks and
sugar. Turn half of the mixture into a buttered fireproof dish, spread
over with raspberry preserves, then put the remainder of the mixture on
the top, smooth over with a knife, dredge with sugar, and make a few
incisions with the point of a knife, so as to form a pretty design.

Bake in a moderately hot oven for twenty-five minutes.

Place the dish on a folded napkin and send to table at once.


                               SWISS EGGS

 6 eggs
 3 tablespoonfuls butter
 1 gill (½ cup) cream
 Salt and pepper
 Swiss cheese

Melt the butter in a fireproof baking dish, break into it the eggs,
cover them with very thin slices of Swiss cheese, and sprinkle over a
little salt and pepper.

Bake in a moderate oven till the eggs are set and the cheese melted.


                             VENETIAN EGGS

 3 eggs
 ½ pint (1 cup) strained tomato juice
 Salt and pepper
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) butter
 ½ pint (1 cup) grated cheese

Melt the butter in a casserole, add the grated cheese, and stir until
melted. Pour in the tomato juice, and when this begins to thicken, add
the eggs, which have been lightly beaten.

Season with salt and pepper and serve on hot toasted crackers.




                             SAUCE RECIPES

      “_Epicurean cooks sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite_”


                            ARROWROOT SAUCE

 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) arrowroot
 2 tablespoonfuls sugar
 ½ pint (1 cup) water
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 1 teaspoonful rose extract

Mix the arrowroot with the water in a small earthenware pan, add the
milk, sugar, and boil for four minutes; add the rose extract or any
flavoring preferred.


                             BÉCHAMEL SAUCE

 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 1 small carrot
 1 celery stalk
 1 small onion
 2 tablespoonfuls flour
 2 tablespoonfuls butter
 1 bay leaf
 12 whole peppers
 1 gill (½ cup) cream
 Salt and pepper

Wash and prepare the vegetables, then slice them. Put them into an
earthenware dish with the milk, whole peppers, and bay leaf, and let
them cook in it until it is well flavored. Melt the butter in another
pan, stir in the flour smoothly, then strain in the milk, and stir it
over the fire till it boils; then let it simmer for ten minutes. Next
strain it, return it to the pan, reheat it, season it to taste, and,
lastly, add the cream, taking care that it does not again reach boiling
point.


                              BROWN GRAVY

 ½ pint (1 cup) water
 1 blade mace
 1 shallot or small onion sliced
 1 heaping teaspoonful flour
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) butter
 ½ teaspoonful meat extract
 1 tablespoonful mushroom ketchup
 ¼ teaspoonful kitchen bouquet
 Salt and pepper
 1 teaspoonful lemon juice
 1 bay leaf
 1 wineglassful port wine

Melt the butter in a fireproof dish, then fry in it the onion or
shallot, sliced, add the flour, and brown it also, add all the rest of
the ingredients except the wine, allow to boil for eight minutes,
strain, add the wine, reheat, but do not allow it to boil, and serve.

Another method is to pour away all the fat from the roasting dish,
retaining the brown sediment, add to this one cupful of water, one
teaspoonful of flour, half a teaspoonful of meat extract, seasoning of
salt, pepper, and celery salt, a few drops of kitchen bouquet; stir till
boiling, allow to boil for five minutes, stirring all the time. Strain
into an earthenware gravy boat.


                            CHOCOLATE SAUCE

 5 squares grated chocolate
 ½ lb. (1 cup) sugar
 1 gill (½ cup) milk
 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract

Put these ingredients into a fireproof dish over the fire; stir until
the sugar is dissolved, and boil until the mixture forms a soft ball
when dropped into ice water.

Serve at once with ice cream.


                             CUCUMBER SAUCE

 4 large cucumbers
 1 teaspoonful white pepper
 1 grated onion
 1 teaspoonful salt
 3 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar
 1½ gills (¾ cup) whipping cream

Peel and grate the cucumbers, which should be large and crisp; when the
pulp is thoroughly drained, turn it into an earthenware bowl; add the
pepper, the onion, grated, the salt, and vinegar.

Mix and fold in the whipped cream at serving time.


                             CUSTARD SAUCE

 2 eggs
 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 1 tablespoonful cornstarch
 1 tablespoonful sugar
 ½ teaspoonful vanilla extract

Moisten the cornstarch with a little of the milk, add the eggs and the
sugar, beat well together, make the milk hot, add it to the cornstarch
and eggs, stir well, return the mixture to the casserole, and let it
thicken, stirring all the time, but it must not boil or it will curdle.

Add the vanilla extract.

Serve hot or cold.


                             CURRANT SAUCE

 3 ozs. (3 tablespoonfuls) currants
 1 tablespoonful fine bread crumbs
 4 cloves
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) butter
 1 wineglassful port wine
 1 blade mace

Wash the currants and put them with the other ingredients into a
fireproof dish, cook gently for twenty minutes, stirring till smooth,
and serve in an earthenware sauce boat.

The cloves and mace should be tied in muslin or cheesecloth and removed
before the sauce is served.

This sauce is good served with venison.


                               EGG SAUCE

 1 yolk hard cooked egg
 2 raw egg yolks
 1 tablespoonful lemon juice
 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley
 Salt, pepper, and paprika
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) butter
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 1 gill (½ cup) stock

Melt the butter in a fireproof dish, stir in the flour, milk, stock,
parsley, seasonings, and the hard cooked yolk of egg rubbed through a
sieve.

Stir till it boils for three minutes, then remove from the fire and stir
in the raw yolks of eggs and the lemon juice.


                            ESPAGNOLE SAUCE

 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) butter
 2 tablespoonfuls flour
 1 pint (2 cups) brown stock
 1 carrot
 1 shallot
 1 small onion
 1 small slice ham
 1 wineglassful sherry wine
 1 gill (½ cup) tomato sauce
 Salt and pepper

Wash and prepare the vegetables, slice and dice them. Heat the butter in
a casserole, put in the vegetables and ham, then fry them a good brown
color.

Stir in the flour and brown it slightly, add the stock, stir it over the
fire till it boils, then add the wine, tomato sauce, and salt and pepper
to taste. Let it come to boiling point, then skim it well, strain it,
and it is ready for use.


                               HARD SAUCE

 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoonfuls) butter
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) sugar
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls chopped almonds
 1 tablespoonful sherry wine or brandy

Blanch the almonds and chop them very fine, add the wine or brandy. Beat
up the butter and sugar to a cream, then beat in the almonds.

Chill and serve in a heap in a dainty ramequin.


                           HOLLANDAISE SAUCE

 4 egg yolks
 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoonfuls) sweet butter
 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar
 1 tablespoonful cold water
 Salt to taste

Break the eggs into a fireproof dish, beat them up, then stir in the
water and the vinegar.

Mix carefully over the fire till it thickens, and be careful that it
does not curdle. Stir in the butter and add the salt.


                           HORSERADISH SAUCE

 6 tablespoonfuls grated horseradish
 1 egg yolk
 ½ teaspoonful salt
 1 tablespoonful vinegar
 1 gill (½ cup) whipping cream

Mix the horseradish, yolk of egg, and salt together, then add the
vinegar and fold in the whipped cream.

If the horseradish is already in vinegar, omit the tablespoonful of
vinegar and press the horseradish until dry.


                              LEMON SAUCE

 2 lemons
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) sugar
 1 tablespoonful cornstarch
 ½ pint (1 cup) water

Put the water on to boil in a fireproof dish. Mix the cornstarch
smoothly and thinly with the strained lemon juice. When the water boils,
pour in the cornstarch and stir till it boils. Now add the sugar and the
grated rind of the lemons.

Serve hot in an earthenware sauce boat.


                            MAYONNAISE SAUCE

 ½ pint (1 cup) olive oil
 1 egg yolk
 1 tablespoonful vinegar
 1 tablespoonful lemon juice
 ½ teaspoonful powdered sugar
 ¼ teaspoonful salt
 Dash of red pepper
 ¼ teaspoonful mustard

Mix together in an earthenware bowl the salt, red pepper, mustard, and
yolk of egg. Beat with a wooden spoon until slightly thickened. Add the
sugar and a teaspoonful of lemon juice or vinegar, and when well blended
with the other ingredients add the olive oil gradually, beating
constantly.

When several teaspoonfuls of the oil have been added, a small egg-beater
may be substituted for the wooden spoon, and the oil may be added
faster.

When the mixture becomes too thick to beat easily, add a little of the
lemon juice or vinegar, then more oil, and so on, alternating until all
the ingredients are used. If liked, add more seasonings.


                             MUSHROOM GRAVY

 ¼ lb. chopped mushrooms
 1 heaping teaspoonful flour
 Salt and pepper
 1 slice onion
 ½ pint (1 cup) water
 1 tablespoonful mushroom ketchup
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) butter
 Salt and pepper to taste
 ¼ teaspoonful meat extract

Fry the mushrooms, onion, and the flour in the butter in a fireproof
dish for a few minutes, add the seasonings, meat extract, mushroom
ketchup, and the water; boil for eight minutes, stirring occasionally,
and serve.

If preferred, the mushrooms can be rubbed through a sieve to press out
all the juice; they can then be reheated and served.


                              ONION SAUCE

 4 onions
 Salt and pepper
 1 dessertspoonful vinegar
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) butter
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) flour
 ½ teaspoonful sugar
 2 tablespoonfuls cream
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk

Peel the onions and drop them into plenty of boiling salted water, add
the vinegar, and boil for a quarter of an hour. Drain and rinse them in
clean warm water and chop them up. Melt the butter in a fireproof dish,
stir in the flour, then gradually add the milk, and stir till they boil;
add the sugar, onions, and a little salt and pepper; stir till boiling;
rub the whole through a sieve, reheat, then add the cream and serve hot.


                              OYSTER SAUCE

 12 oysters
 1 tablespoonful butter
 1 tablespoonful flour
 Salt and pepper
 1 gill (½ cup) milk
 1 gill (½ cup) stock
 1 gill (½ cup) cream
 A few drops lemon juice

Blend the butter and flour together in a fireproof dish, then add
gradually the milk and stock and boil for five minutes, stirring all the
time; add the lemon juice, cream, salt, pepper, and the oysters divided
into two or four pieces, according to size.

Do not boil the sauce after the oysters are added.


                             PARSLEY SAUCE

 3 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 Pepper and salt to taste
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) butter
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) flour

Blend the butter and the flour in a fireproof dish, then gradually add
the milk, stir till boiling; add the seasonings and cook for eight
minutes; then add the chopped parsley, stir, and serve.


                               PLUM SAUCE

 1 pint (2 cups) stoned plums
 1 gill (½ cup) water
 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoonfuls) sugar
 1 teaspoonful lemon extract

Put the stoned plums into an earthenware dish, add the water and the
sugar; stir them over the fire until the plums are quite smooth; rub
through a sieve, add the lemon extract, and serve with any steamed
pudding.


                            PISTACHIO SAUCE

 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) chopped pistachio nuts
 1 tablespoonful cornstarch
 1 gill (½ cup) water
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) sugar
 1 tablespoonful cream
 1 wineglassful Marsala wine
 ¼ teaspoonful pistachio extract

Blanch the pistachio nuts, then pound them till smooth. Mix the
cornstarch smoothly with the water in a fireproof dish, add the
pistachio nuts, and let them boil, keeping them well stirred. Add the
sugar, cream, Marsala wine, and pistachio extract.

Strain the sauce and it is ready.


                             SAUCE TARTARE

 ½ pint (1 cup) mayonnaise sauce
 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
 1 tablespoonful chopped olives
 1 tablespoonful chopped pickles
 1 teaspoonful chopped chives
 1 tablespoonful chopped capers

Put the mayonnaise dressing into an earthenware bowl, then mix in all
the other ingredients.


                              TOMATO SAUCE

 ½ lb. tomatoes or 1 can of tomatoes
 1 onion
 A bunch sweet herbs
 ½ pint (1 cup) stock or water
 ½ teaspoonful salt
 A few drops of red coloring
 1 carrot
 1 turnip
 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) butter
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) flour
 4 whole peppers
 Bunch of parsley
 Blade of mace
 1 bay leaf

Put the butter into a casserole with the carrot, turnip, onion, and
tomatoes cut up into pieces, add the herbs, parsley, bay leaf, whole
peppers, and mace, and fry for ten minutes, then add the flour, the
stock or water, salt, and red coloring, stir till boiling, then simmer
slowly for forty minutes, rub through a sieve, reheat, and serve.


                              WHITE SAUCE

 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) butter
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk or water
 1 bay leaf
 A few drops lemon juice
 Salt and pepper to taste

Blend the butter and the flour together in an earthenware dish, then add
the milk, bay leaf, and salt, stir over the fire until it boils and
thickens, then remove the bay leaf, season it to taste with salt,
pepper, and lemon juice, and it is ready.

To make it a sweet sauce add one tablespoonful of sugar and half a
teaspoonful of extract.




                         CAKE AND BREAD RECIPES

            “_’Tis passing good: I prithee let me have it_”


                              APPLE BREAD

 ½ compressed yeast cake
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 1 lb. (4 cups) flour
 3 ozs. (3 heaping tablespoonfuls) sugar
 6 ozs. (¾ cup) butter
 3 eggs
 Apple sauce

At night dissolve the yeast cake in the milk. The milk should be heated
to boiling point, then cooled to lukewarm. Sift the flour into an
earthenware basin, add the sugar, and rub the butter well into them. Add
the milk, the eggs well beaten, and beat with a wooden spoon until the
dough is blistered.

Cover and set over night in a warm place. The next day roll the dough in
two cakes, each about half an inch thick; spread the lower one with tart
apple sauce, then butter the other slightly and lay over it, and let
them rise together in a buttered fireproof dish for half an hour.

Bake in a moderate oven till the bread is ready. When taken from the
oven spread with more apple sauce; dredge with sugar and return to the
oven to glaze.

Serve hot.


                            APPLE SAUCE CAKE

 ½ pint (1 cup) sour apple sauce
 1 teaspoonful baking soda
 ½ lb. (1 cup) sugar
 ¼ lb. (½ cup) butter or lard
 1 saltspoonful salt
 ½ teaspoonful powdered cloves
 1 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon
 ¼ teaspoonful grated nutmeg
 3 tablespoonfuls warm water
 7 ozs. (1¾ cups) flour
 1 cupful Sultana raisins

Cream the butter and sugar together, add the salt, spices, raisins,
cleaned, the soda dissolved in the warm water, apple sauce, and the
flour. Beat all thoroughly together and pour into a buttered and floured
shallow casserole.

Bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes.


                              BRANDY CAKE

 6 ozs. (¾ cup) butter
 12 ozs. (1½ cups) sugar
 2 eggs
 ¾ lb. (3 cups) flour
 3 gills (1½ cups) milk
 2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder
 1 gill (½ cup) brandy

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the yolks of the eggs,
beating them well in, the milk, flour, baking powder, brandy, and the
whites of eggs beaten stiffly.

Turn into a buttered and floured fireproof dish and bake in a moderate
oven for three-quarters of an hour.


                              CHEESE CAKE

 4 ozs. (½ cup) butter
 1 lb. (2 cups) sugar
 4 eggs
 4 ozs. (1 cup) flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk
 2 lbs. pot cheese
 1 lemon
 Pastry

Line a well-buttered casserole with pie crust. Beat the butter and sugar
to a cream, then beat in the yolks of the eggs, add the flour, milk,
cheese, grated lemon rind, and the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs.

Bake for fifty minutes in a moderate oven. Allow it to cool in the
casserole. Dust thickly over with powdered sugar.


                             CHOCOLATE CAKE

 4 ozs. (½ cup) butter
 12 ozs. (1½ cups) sugar
 2 eggs
 1 gill (½ cup) sour milk
 1 square chocolate
 1 gill (½ cup) boiling water
 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
 ½ teaspoonful rose extract
 ½ lb. (2 cups) flour
 1 teaspoonful baking soda

Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the eggs well beaten, the
milk, the chocolate dissolved in the boiling water, the extracts, the
flour, and the soda.

Mix carefully, turn into a shallow buttered and floured earthenware dish
in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour.


                           COCOA SPONGE CAKE

 2 ozs. (¼ cup) cocoa
 3 eggs
 1 gill (½ cup) cold water
 1 teaspoonful vanilla extract
 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
 1 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon
 ¼ teaspoonful salt
 7 ozs. (1¾ cups) flour
 ¼ teaspoonful grated nutmeg
 12 ozs. (1½ cups) sugar

Beat up the yolks of the eggs till light, then add the water, sugar, and
vanilla. Mix together the flour, nutmeg, cocoa, cinnamon, salt, and
baking powder, then add them to the sugar. Fold in the whites of eggs
stiffly beaten and bake in a quick oven in a buttered earthenware dish
till ready.


                              COFFEE BREAD

 ½ pint (1 cup) scalded milk
 4 ozs. (½ cup) butter
 4 ozs. (½ cup) sugar
 ½ teaspoonful salt
 1 compressed yeast cake
 1 gill (½ cup) warm milk
 1 egg
 1 cupful Sultana raisins
 Flour

Scald the milk, add the butter, sugar, and salt to it; when lukewarm,
add the yeast cake dissolved in the lukewarm milk, the egg well beaten,
the raisins, and enough sifted flour to make a stiff batter.

Turn into a well-buttered casserole, cover, and allow to rise overnight.
In the morning spread in another buttered fireproof dish, cover, and
allow to rise again.

Before baking, brush over with a beaten egg, and cover with the
following mixture: Melt three tablespoonfuls of butter, add one-third of
a cupful of sugar and one teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. When the
sugar is almost melted, add three heaping tablespoonfuls of flour.

Bake in a hot oven for thirty-five minutes.


                               CORN BREAD

 3 gills (1½ cups) yellow corn meal
 ½ pint (1 cup) sweet milk
 ½ pint (1 cup) buttermilk
 ½ teaspoonful baking soda
 1 teaspoonful salt
 2 eggs

Mix the milks, soda, salt, and the eggs well beaten, then beat them into
the meal.

Butter a casserole, set it in the oven till hot, pour in the batter to
the depth of three-quarters of an inch, and bake in a hot oven till
ready.


                              CURRANT CAKE

 6 ozs. (6 heaping tablespoonfuls) cleaned currants
 1 lb. (4 cups) flour
 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoonfuls) sugar
 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
 4 eggs
 ½ cupful chopped nuts
 ½ lb. (1 cup) butter
 1 teaspoonful lemon extract
 Pinch of salt

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the eggs one by one. Mix
thoroughly, then sift in the flour, salt, and baking powder, then add
the currants, nuts, and lemon extract, and mix gently.

Pour into a buttered and floured earthenware dish and bake in a moderate
oven for one hour.


                               DATE CAKE

 1 lb. dates, stoned and halved
 ½ lb. (1 cup) butter
 ½ lb. (1 cup) sugar
 2 eggs
 1 teaspoonful baking soda
 1 gill (½ cup) boiling water
 1 lb. chopped walnut meats
 2 cupfuls Sultana raisins
 ½ lb. (2 cups) flour
 1 teaspoonful almond extract

Beat the butter and sugar together until creamy, then add the eggs well
beaten. Dissolve the soda in the boiling water, then add it with the
nuts, fruit, extract, and flour. Mix thoroughly, turn into a buttered
and floured fireproof dish, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour.


                            DUTCH APPLE CAKE

 Apples, cored and sliced
 1 oz. (1 heaping tablespoonful) butter, melted
 3 eggs
 1 teaspoonful lemon extract
 4 ozs. (4 heaping tablespoonfuls) sugar
 ½ lb. (2 cups) flour
 ¼ teaspoonful salt
 2 heaping teaspoonfuls baking powder
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk

Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, add to the yolks the
melted butter, milk, salt, and sifted flour. Beat till smooth, then add
the baking powder, lemon extract, and fold in the stiffly beaten whites
of the eggs.

Pour into a well-greased casserole, cover with the apples, and bake in a
hot oven for half an hour.

Serve hot with sweet sauce flavored with lemon extract or with cream.


                               FRUIT CAKE

 ½ lb. (1 cup) butter
 1½ lbs. (3 cups) sugar
 6 eggs
 1 pint (2 cups) sour cream
 1 teaspoonful soda
 1¾ lbs. (7 cups) flour
 1 grated nutmeg
 ½ teaspoonful powdered mace
 1 lb. currants
 1 lb. Sultana raisins
 ½ lb. chopped citron peel
 1 lemon
 1 teaspoonful rose extract
 ¼ teaspoonful salt

Cream the butter and sugar together, add gradually the yolks of the eggs
well beaten, the soda mixed with the cream, flour, salt, spices, grated
rind and strained lemon juice, the chopped citron peel, currants, rose
extract, raisins, and the whites of eggs beaten stiffly.

Mix carefully, turn into a large buttered casserole, and bake for two
and a half hours in a steady oven.


                               FUDGE CAKE

 4 ozs. (½ cup) butter
 ½ lb. (1 cup) sugar
 2 eggs
 1 gill (½ cup) milk
 6 ozs. (1½ cups) flour
 2½ teaspoonfuls baking powder
 2 ozs. melted unsweetened chocolate
 ½ teaspoonful vanilla extract

Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the yolks of eggs well
beaten, the whites stiffly beaten, milk, flour, baking powder,
chocolate, and extracts.

Mix well and pour into a buttered and floured shallow casserole. Bake
for forty minutes in a moderate oven. When cold, cover with any good
white frosting.


                            HICKORY NUT CAKE

 1½ cupfuls hickory nut meats
 1 lb. (2 cups) sugar
 ½ lb. (1 cup) butter
 3 eggs
 ½ pint (1 cup) buttermilk
 1 teaspoonful baking soda
 1 lb. (4 cups) sifted flour
 ¼ teaspoonful salt
 1 teaspoonful almond extract

Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the eggs well beaten, the
salt, extract, the soda dissolved in the buttermilk, flour, and the nuts
chopped.

Mix carefully and pour into a buttered and floured casserole and bake in
a moderate oven for one hour.


                             IMPERIAL CAKE

 1 lb. (2 cups) butter
 1 lb. (2 cups) sugar
 10 eggs
 1¼ lbs. (5 cups) flour
 3 ozs. (3 heaping tablespoonfuls) blanched and halved pistachio nuts
 ¼ lb. (½ cup) preserved cherries
 1 gill (½ cup) cream
 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
 1 teaspoonful pistachio extract

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then beat in the yolks of the eggs
one by one, add the cream, flour, baking powder, the nuts, cherries,
extract, and whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth.

Mix carefully, turn into a buttered and floured casserole, and bake in a
moderate oven for one and a half hours.


                             MOTHER’S CAKE

 1½ cups (¾ pint) yellow corn meal
 2 ozs. (¼ cup) sugar
 3 gills (1½ cups) sour milk
 2 ozs. (½ cup) flour
 1 teaspoonful baking powder
 ½ teaspoonful salt
 1 teaspoonful baking soda
 1 tablespoonful melted butter or lard

Put the sugar into a basin, add the corn meal, flour, baking powder,
salt, soda, and the milk. Beat well, then add the melted butter or lard
and pour into a buttered and floured shallow earthenware dish.

Bake in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes.


                              POTATO CAKE

 6 ozs. (¾ cup) butter
 1 lb. (2 cups) sugar
 ½ lb. (2 cups) flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) hot mashed potatoes
 1 gill (½ cup) milk
 ⅓ cupful melted chocolate
 ½ pint (1 cup) English walnut meats
 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder
 1 teaspoonful powdered cloves
 1 teaspoonful powdered cinnamon
 ½ teaspoonful grated nutmeg
 4 eggs

Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the potatoes, milk,
chocolate, yolks of eggs well beaten, flour, baking powder, cloves,
nutmeg, cinnamon, and whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth.

Mix all together, then add the chopped nuts. Turn into a buttered and
floured casserole, and bake in a moderate oven for forty-five minutes.


                            SOFT GINGERBREAD

 6 ozs. (¾ cup) butter
 6 ozs. (¾ cup) sugar
 ½ pint (1 cup) milk (sour preferred)
 ½ pint (1 cup) molasses
 2 eggs
 2 teaspoonfuls powdered ginger
 2 teaspoonfuls powdered cinnamon
 ¼ teaspoonful grated nutmeg
 1 teaspoonful baking soda
 3 tablespoonfuls hot water
 11 ozs. (2¾ cups) flour

Cream the butter and the sugar together, then add the eggs well beaten,
milk, molasses, spices, flour, and the soda dissolved in the hot water.
Mix well, turn into a buttered and floured shallow earthenware dish.

Bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour.


                               SPICE CAKE

 4 ozs. (½ cup) butter
 4 ozs. (½ cup) sugar
 ½ lb. (2 cups) flour
 1½ teaspoonfuls baking powder
 1 egg
 ½ teaspoonful powdered ginger
 ½ teaspoonful powdered cinnamon
 Some lemon marmalade

Rub the butter finely into the flour, add the sugar, baking powder, and
spices. Beat up the egg, add it gradually, making the dry ingredients
into a stiff paste. Knead it a little on a floured baking board, divide
it into two pieces, roll them out, and line a greased fireproof plate
with one of them, spread over with the marmalade, spread the other piece
on the top, and pinch it neatly round the edges.

Bake in a hot oven for half an hour.


                              RAISIN BREAD

 1½ pints (3 cups) yellow corn meal
 ¾ pint (1½ cups) Graham flour
 ¾ pint (1½ cups) white flour
 ½ pint (1 cup) molasses
 1 teaspoonful baking soda
 1 gill (½ cup) hot water
 1 teaspoonful salt
 ¾ pint (1½ cups) Sultana raisins
 Sour milk

Put the corn meal into a basin, add the flours, raisins, salt, the soda
mixed with the molasses and water; make into a soft batter with the sour
milk.

Fill a buttered casserole half full with the mixture, cover, and steam
for three hours.




                             PICKLE RECIPES

                        “_What relish is this?_”


                              APPLE RELISH

 7 lbs. apples
 2 lbs. Sultana raisins
 1 pint (2 cups) vinegar
 3½ lbs. sugar
 3 lemons
 2 tablespoonfuls orange flower water
 1 teaspoonful powdered cloves
 2 teaspoonfuls powdered cinnamon

Clean the raisins and put them into an earthenware pan with the orange
flower water, the strained lemon juice, sugar, vinegar, spices, and
apples chopped.

Cook steadily for thirty minutes. Divide into jars and cover.


                                CHUTNEY

 1 lb. dried peaches
 1 lb. dried apricots
 1 lb. dates
 2 lbs. Sultana raisins
 ½ lb. currants
 2 lbs. sugar
 ¾ pint (1½ cups) vinegar
 1 heaping tablespoonful (1 oz.) salt
 1 tablespoonful red pepper
 1 tablespoonful powdered cinnamon
 1 tablespoonful powdered cloves
 2 tablespoonfuls chopped garlic

Wash the peaches and apricots, cover them with cold water, and soak for
twelve hours; put them into an earthenware dish, add the dates, seeded
and cut into small pieces, add one cupful of cold water, and stew till
they are soft. Add all the other ingredients and simmer for twenty
minutes, stirring frequently.


                              CORN RELISH

 18 ears corn
 2 lbs. sugar
 1 firm cabbage
 5 large sliced onions
 3 red peppers
 1 head celery
 3 pints (6 cups) vinegar
 1 teaspoonful turmeric
 1 teaspoonful dry mustard

Cut the corn from the ears, put it into an earthenware pan, add the
spices, vinegar, and the vegetables chopped.

Cook for twenty minutes, then can and cover.


                            CUCUMBER MANGOES

 6 large cucumbers
 2 ozs. mustard seeds
 2 ozs. chopped garlic
 2 quarts (8 cups) vinegar
 1 oz. white whole peppers
 1 oz. bruised ginger
 4 blades mace
 2 ozs. salt
 1 oz. mustard
 1 oz. scraped horseradish
 ½ cupful currants

Cut each of the cucumbers into two equal parts. Extract the pulp, and
add to it the mustard seeds, currants, and chopped garlic. Fill the
cavities with this mixture, and arrange the cucumbers on their ends in
two large earthenware dishes. Put the vinegar into a pan, add the whole
peppers, ginger, mace, and salt, and boil for five minutes. Pour over
the cucumbers while hot. Reboil the vinegar each day for a week, and
pour it over the pickle, but on the last occasion add the mustard and
the horseradish. Cover the pickle closely and set aside for a month.


                              INDIA RELISH

 6 green tomatoes
 1 red pepper
 2 green peppers
 2 onions
 12 medium sized cucumbers
 Salt
 1 pint (2 cups) vinegar
 ½ pint (1 cup) water
 3 tablespoonfuls sugar
 1 teaspoonful cinnamon
 1 teaspoonful turmeric
 1 saltspoonful cloves
 1 saltspoonful allspice
 1 pint (2 cups) hot vinegar
 2 tablespoonfuls white mustard seeds
 2 tablespoonfuls powdered mint

Slice the tomatoes and remove as many of the seeds as possible. Take the
seeds also from the peppers and chop them with the onions. Slice the
cucumbers into a stoneware jar. Cover them with salt and let them stand
for twenty-four hours. Drain, pour the cold vinegar and one cupful of
water over them, bring slowly to a scald, and drain again. Mix the
sugar, cinnamon, turmeric, cloves, and allspice together with a little
cold vinegar. Put the mustard seeds, spices, and vegetables into the hot
vinegar and boil for twenty-five minutes, stirring almost constantly.
Pour into small jars, lay a nasturtium leaf over the top, and seal.


                              LEMON PICKLE

 12 large lemons
 ½ cupful salt
 8 garlic cloves
 1 tablespoonful powdered mace
 1 tablespoonful grated nutmeg
 1 tablespoonful powdered allspice
 1 teaspoonful red pepper
 4 heaping tablespoonfuls mustard
 ½ gallon vinegar

Wash and dry the lemons, and cut each one into eight pieces. Place them
in an earthenware pan with the salt, garlic, mace, nutmeg, red pepper,
allspice, and mustard; add the vinegar, and bring the pickle gradually
to the boil.

Simmer for half an hour, then pour it into a large stoneware jar, and
stir it daily for a month, after which time place it in small glass jars
and cover securely.


                              LIME RELISH

 12 thin-skinned limes
 ½ pint (1 cup) vinegar
 ¼ pint (½ cup) water
 12 ozs. (1½ cups) sugar

Wash the limes and soak them in cold water for twenty-four hours,
changing the water several times. In the morning put them in an
earthenware dish over the fire, cover with cold water, and boil till a
straw can penetrate them easily.

Let cool, cut in eighths, and remove the seeds. Put the sugar, vinegar,
and water into a casserole, allow it to boil for twenty minutes, then
pour it over the limes.

Pour into jars and seal. This is very good with fish or cold meats.


                             MIXED PICKLES

 1 gallon vinegar
 ¼ lb. bruised ginger
 ¼ lb. mustard seed
 ¼ lb. salt
 1 oz. black pepper
 ¼ oz. red pepper
 ¼ lb. unmixed mustard
 2 ozs. turmeric
 Vegetables in season
 ¼ oz. mace

Take a large earthenware jar or casserole that will hold two gallons,
and put the vinegar into it; add the ginger and mustard seeds. Pound
together the salt, peppers, mace, mustard, and turmeric. Make them into
a paste by adding a little vinegar, then add it to the vinegar in the
jar, taking care to mix it thoroughly.

Cover the jar tightly, and keep it in a warm place for a month, stirring
it every day with a wooden spoon. Gather different vegetables as they
come in season, and prepare them by cutting them into neat pieces and
scalding them in strong brine, which should be boiling hot. The
different pieces must be drained and left to get quite dry before
putting them into the pickle. When all the vegetables that are wished
for are added, put the pickles into earthenware jars or dishes and cover
carefully so as to exclude the air.


                               PICCALILLI

 2 heads sound white cabbage
 2 heads cauliflower
 1 teaspoonful ground ginger
 1 teaspoonful white pepper
 1 teaspoonful powdered mace
 Vinegar
 ½ lb. white mustard seeds
 4 green peppers
 4 red peppers
 4 dozen small cucumbers
 3 quarts small green string-beans
 ¼ peck green tomatoes
 1 bunch celery
 6 large white onions

Tie the spices in a muslin bag. Chop the vegetables, sprinkle with salt,
allow to stand for three hours, then drain and squeeze out. Cover with
hot vinegar, add the spice bag, and allow to stand until the next
morning. Reheat the vinegar and pour it over the pickle; do this for
three days, then keep in an earthenware dish tightly covered.


                             PICKLED BEETS

 7 beets
 2 pints (4 cups) vinegar
 ½ oz. whole ginger
 ½ oz. whole peppers
 1 bay leaf
 1 blade mace
 12 cloves

Wash the beets carefully, taking care not to break the fibres, or they
will bleed and lose their color. Boil them in plenty of boiling salted
water for one and a half hours. Take them up, peel and cut them in
slices an eighth of an inch thick, and put them into a stoneware jar.
Boil one pint of the vinegar with the whole peppers, bay leaf, mace,
cloves, ginger, and, when boiled for five minutes, add to it the other
pint of cold vinegar. Strain over the beets in the jars; cover when
cold.


                            PICKLED CHERRIES

 7 lbs. red cherries
 3½ lbs. sugar
 ½ pint (1 cup) vinegar
 1½ ozs. whole cloves
 2½ ozs. stick cinnamon

Wipe the cherries, then stone and drain them. Tie the spices in a muslin
bag and heat them with the vinegar.

When boiling, pour the vinegar over the cold cherries. Keep draining off
and heating for four days.

Then heat all together in a casserole and seal.


                           PICKLED EGG-PLANT

 Egg-plants
 Lemon
 Vinegar
 Sugar
 Mixed spices

Peel egg-plants into inch thick slices and soak them in salted water for
three hours. Drain and place in water, add a little lemon juice, and
leave for three hours. Drain and pour over the slices some hot spiced
vinegar, allowing one cupful of sugar and one and a half tablespoonfuls
of mixed spices to one quart of vinegar.

Place the egg-plant slices in stoneware jars, bring the vinegar to
boiling point, and add it. Cover and seal.


                             PICKLED ONIONS

 Small button onions
 Salt water
 1 quart (4 cups) vinegar
 2 blades mace
 2 bay leaves
 1 tablespoonful sugar
 1 teaspoonful salt
 1 teaspoonful allspices
 8 cloves
 1 teaspoonful whole peppers

Take the onions, remove the outer skin with the fingers and the second
skin with a silver knife, throw them into salt water, allowing them to
remain for twenty-four hours. Then put them on the fire in an
earthenware pan with fresh salt water and let them come to a boil.
Remove from the fire, pour off the water, put the onions into a large
stoneware jar, and pour over the hot vinegar, which has been previously
scalded, with the spices. When spices are used, they should be put into
a small cheesecloth bag and thrown into the vinegar; this obviates the
necessity of straining.


                            PICKLED OYSTERS

 200 large oysters
 ½ pint (1 cup) vinegar
 1 pint (2 cups) white wine
 4 teaspoonfuls salt
 1 teaspoonful white pepper
 ¼ teaspoonful powdered mace

Strain the liquor from the oysters, add to it the above ingredients,
then put into an earthenware jar and allow to boil up. Pour while
boiling hot over the oysters, and let them stand for a quarter of an
hour; then pour the liquor off and let both oysters and liquor get cold.

Put the oysters into a jar, add the liquor, and cover tightly. They will
keep for some time.


                            PICKLED PEACHES

 ½ peck peaches
 ½ pint (1 cup) vinegar
 ½ pint (1 cup) water
 3 pints (6 cups) sugar
 A few cloves

Do not pare the peaches, but wipe them carefully with a clean cloth.
Divide them into three equal parts. The peaches should not be too ripe.
Bring the vinegar, the sugar, and water to boiling point in an
earthenware dish, then put in one-third of the peaches, and cook for
twenty minutes; remove them to a platter, then put in another third of
the peaches, till each part has cooked for twenty minutes.

Stick two cloves into each peach, put them into dry jars, cover with the
boiling syrup, and seal at once.


                             PICKLED PLUMS

 Plums
 Salt
 1 quart (4 cups) vinegar
 1 tablespoonful sugar
 1 oz. white ginger
 1 oz. allspice
 1 oz. cloves
 1 oz. whole peppers
 1 shallot
 6 chillies

Choose young green plums and wipe them well; now put a layer of salt
into an earthenware dish, then a layer of the plums, and repeat these
layers until the dish is full, being careful to end with the salt. Leave
this for four days, then lift out the fruit, drain well, and dry it in
the sun, turning it constantly for three days.

Put the vinegar and the spices into a saucepan; bring them to boiling
point and simmer for ten minutes; then strain and leave till cold. Pour
on the fruit and bottle it.


                          PICKLED RED CABBAGE

 1 large red cabbage
 Salt
 1 teaspoonful red pepper
 1 quart (4 cups) vinegar

Bring the vinegar to the boiling point and cool it; stir the red pepper
into it. Quarter the cabbage, remove the stalk, pull the leaves apart,
and wash it thoroughly.

Cut the leaves into thin shreds, arrange them on an earthenware dish,
sprinkle a handful of salt over them, and allow to stand in a cool place
for twelve hours.

Drain the cabbage, dry it in a cloth, and pack it in stoneware jars.
Fill the jars with the vinegar so that the pickle is well covered, and
tie down.


                            PICKLED WALNUTS

 1 peck hulled walnuts
 Vinegar
 ¼ lb. cloves
 4 tablespoonfuls mustard seeds
 2 tablespoonfuls black pepper
 1 pint (2 cups) grated horseradish
 2 pepper pods
 2 sliced onions
 1 garlic clove

Gather the walnuts while soft enough to run a pin through them; put them
into an earthenware pan, cover them with water, and boil till the hull
comes off easily.

Put them into a tub of cold water; hull them, then wash them and put
them into jars. Pour moderately strong salt and water over them and let
them remain in this for a week, changing the brine once during this
time. At the end of this time scald them in weak vinegar, and let them
remain in this for four days; then pour it off, cover them with cold
vinegar, and add all the seasonings. Keep well covered.


                             SHALLOT PICKLE

 Shallots
 1 quart (4 cups) vinegar
 1 blade mace
 2 cloves
 4 allspices
 A pinch of red pepper
 6 whole white peppers
 2 saltspoonfuls salt

Put the vinegar and the spices into an earthenware pan and boil them for
five minutes. Strain and leave to cool.

Skin and divide up the shallots, place them in perfectly dry pickle
jars, fill up the jars with the vinegar.

Cover and leave for two months before using.


                             TOMATO CHUTNEY

 2½ lbs. tomatoes
 1 lb. apples
 1 large onion
 1 pint (2 cups) vinegar
 2 tablespoonfuls salt
 4 heaping tablespoonfuls (4 ozs.) brown sugar
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) ground ginger
 1 tablespoonful mustard seed

Skin and slice the tomatoes into an earthenware dish, add the apples and
onion finely chopped, add the vinegar and salt, and stew until soft;
then rub through a sieve, stir in the sugar, ginger, mustard seed, and
cook gently for half an hour.

Cover the jar and leave in a warm place for three days; then divide into
wide-necked bottles, cork tightly, and store in a cool place.




                            PRESERVE RECIPES

                       “_Things sweet to taste_”


                               APPLE JAM

 Apples
 Sugar
 Water
 Lemon

Peel, quarter, and core the apples, then put them into an earthenware
pan with enough water to cover and the rind and strained juice of the
lemon.

Bring them to the boiling point, stir the whole round, take out the
apples, and set them to cool. When cold, put the apples into a thin
syrup made of half a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit, and enough
water to dissolve the sugar; allow them to boil for ten minutes, keeping
it all well skimmed.

Remove the pan and let the whole cool, then set the pan over the fire
and let it all simmer carefully until the fruit looks quite clear. When
cool, put into jars and cover.


                          BLACK CURRANT JELLY

 Black currants
 Raspberries
 Water
 Sugar

To every four pounds of black currants allow one pound of raspberries.
Pluck the roughest of the stalks from the currants, and the stems and
the leaves from the raspberries, and put them into a fireproof dish with
half a pint of water. Boil them for ten minutes after they have begun to
simmer. Then squeeze out all the juice that can be got quite clear and
free from specks. Measure it, allow one pound of sugar to each pint of
juice, and a pound over if there are more than four pints, half a pound
if under that quantity.

Put it on the fire, and stir till the sugar is all melted; then bring it
to the boil, and allow it to bubble for ten minutes. Skim it, if
necessary, and pot it.

It should be kept in a cool, dry place after being fastened down so as
to be air-tight.


                           CRANBERRY PRESERVE

 1 quart cranberries
 1 pint (2 cups) water
 ½ teaspoonful carbonate of soda
 Sugar

Pick over the berries, put them into an earthenware pot with the water,
and cook slowly for one hour, stirring occasionally. Draw the pan to the
side of the stove, and add the soda. Stir well, and carefully remove all
scum as it rises. Then rub through a sieve, and to every cupful of the
purée add one cupful of sugar. Return to the pan and cook gently for
half an hour.

Put into jars and seal.


                           CURRANT BAR-LE-DUC

 Red or white currants
 Sugar

Secure the largest sized currants, red or white, and stem them without
breaking. To each pound allow three pounds of sugar. Take some currants
and bruise them while warm until a pint of juice is obtained. Put half a
cupful of this into an earthenware dish and add the sugar. Bring slowly
to boiling point and skim carefully.

After it has been boiling for five minutes drop in one pound of the
currants and simmer for four minutes. Lift them out without breaking
them, and boil the syrup down for five minutes, or longer if it is not
very thick. Skim well and strain over the fruit. Put into little jelly
glasses and when cold cover with hot paraffin.


                          FIG AND RHUBARB JAM

 4 lbs. rhubarb
 3 lbs. sugar
 2 lemons
 1 lb. figs
 ¼ pint (½ cup) water

Wash and dry the rhubarb and figs and cut them into small pieces; put
them into an earthenware jar or casserole, add the sugar, the strained
lemon juice, and the water. Simmer for forty minutes. Seal in jars.

This excellent preserve keeps well.


                              GINGER PEARS

 10 lbs. pears
 1 lb. crystallized ginger
 7 lbs. sugar
 4 lemons
 6 oranges

Peel the pears, cut them into small pieces, put them into an earthenware
pan with the sugar, and simmer for one hour. Add the strained orange and
lemon juice and the ginger cut into small pieces, and allow to simmer
for two and a half hours.

Divide into glasses and cover.


                             GRAPE CONSERVE

 5 lbs. grapes
 5 lbs. sugar
 1 lb. raisins
 1 lb. shelled walnuts
 3 juicy oranges

Remove the stems, skins, and seeds from the grapes, then cook the pulp
in a casserole till tender and press it through a sieve. Boil the yellow
skins of the oranges until tender, then chop fine.

Put them into an earthenware pan with the grape pulp, add the strained
orange juice, sugar, raisins, and walnuts. Boil until quite thick; put
into glasses and seal.


                             GREEN-GAGE JAM

 Green-gages
 Lump sugar
 Water

Stone the green-gages, and add some of the kernels to the fruit. Allow
six pounds of lump sugar and one quart of water to every six pounds of
green-gages, weighed after stoning. Heat the sugar on a baking sheet in
the oven, then add it to the water and allow to boil for eight minutes,
then add the fruit, and boil gently in a casserole for three-quarters of
an hour.

Pour into glass jars and seal.


                            LEMON MARMALADE

 3 lbs. lemons
 2 quarts (8 cups) water
 2 oranges
 Sugar

Wipe the lemons and the oranges carefully. Pare the skin very thinly
from the lemons and the oranges, and cut them up into slender chips. Put
the chips on to boil in a saucepan, with three cupfuls of the water,
allow to cook for forty minutes. Now take all the white part from the
lemons and the oranges and cut up all the pulp roughly; put this into a
large casserole or earthenware dish with the remainder of the water to
cook slowly for one and a quarter hours. Stir it frequently; then strain
it through a hot jelly bag without pressure. Add the chips and the
liquid to the strained juice. Now measure this liquid, and for each
cupful allow one pound of sugar. Return to the casserole, and boil
slowly for half an hour.

Put into jars and seal for use.


                        PRESERVED HUCKLEBERRIES

 Huckleberries
 Sugar
 Lemons

Wash and drain the huckleberries, then weigh, and to each pound allow
three-quarters of a pound of sugar and the strained juice of half a
lemon. Sprinkle one-half of the sugar over the berries and stand aside
overnight. In the morning drain off the juice into a casserole, add the
remaining sugar and the lemon juice, add half a pint of water, stir over
the fire till the sugar is dissolved, bring quickly to boiling point,
skim, add the berries, and simmer gently until they are tender.

Put into glasses and seal.


                           PRESERVED CARROTS

 5 lbs. carrots
 Sugar
 Almonds
 Lemons
 Almond extract

Wash, but do not scrape, five pounds of young carrots, boil them till
tender in boiling salted water, then drain, peel, and mash to a fine
pulp. To every pound of the pulp allow one and a half pounds of sugar,
six blanched and shredded almonds, the grated rind and strained juice of
two lemons, and half a teaspoonful of almond extract. Put the pulp and
sugar into an earthenware pan and cook together for a quarter of an
hour; remove from the fire and add the almonds, the lemon juice, and
rind. Return to the fire, add the almond extract, and cook for five
minutes longer.

When cool, put in jars and seal.


                            PRUNE MARMALADE

 2½ lbs. large prunes
 6 large apples
 ½ lb. (1 cup) sugar
 1 lemon
 2 tablespoonfuls orange flower water

Wash the prunes and soak them over night in cold water. Steam or stew
gently until tender. Set aside until cool enough to handle; then remove
the stones. Return to the fire, add the apples, pared, cored, and
sliced, sugar, strained lemon juice, and orange flower water.

Cook slowly to a marmalade in a casserole, stirring occasionally that
the mixture may be smooth.

Can at once.


                            PUMPKIN PRESERVE

 Pumpkin
 1 lb. (2 cups) sugar
 2 lemons
 1 teaspoonful powdered ginger
 Water

Peel, slice, and remove the seeds from the pumpkin, then weigh it. For
each pound take one pound of sugar. Lay the pumpkin in a large
earthenware dish, and sprinkle the sugar between the layers. Moisten the
sugar with the strained lemon juice, cover with a cloth, and leave for
three days. Place in an earthenware pan, adding half a pint of water for
each three pounds of sugar, the ginger, and the grated rind of one
lemon. Simmer till quite tender, and turn into a large bowl.

Cover and leave for six days. Lay the slices of pumpkin in dry jars,
boil the syrup until it thickens, pour into the jars, and tie down
immediately.


                            QUINCE MARMALADE

 Quinces
 Sugar
 Cold water

Wipe the quinces with a damp cloth, but do not peel them; cut them in
slices and put them into an earthenware pan with enough cold water to
float them. Boil them till quite tender and the fruit is reduced to a
pulp, then rub through a sieve. Weigh the pulp, and allow three-quarters
of a pound of lump sugar to every pound.

Place the whole on the fire and keep it well stirred from the bottom of
the pan with a wooden spoon until reduced to a marmalade. Drop a little
on a cold plate; if it jellies, you will know that it is ready. Divide
into glass jars while hot; let it stand till cold, then seal.


                             RASPBERRY JAM

 Raspberries
 Sugar

Take equal quantities of raspberries and sugar. The raspberries must be
ripe and dry. Put them into a casserole and then place them in a hot
oven; put the sugar on a baking sheet and put it also in a hot oven.

When quite hot and beginning to run, take it out and stir it among the
raspberries until all the sugar is dissolved; let the preserve remain in
the oven for fifteen minutes, then take it out and pour into jars.

This preserve is excellent both in flavor and color, and will keep for
one year.


                            TOMATO PRESERVE

 Tomatoes
 Sugar
 Red currant juice

Choose ripe, sound, well-colored tomatoes and rub them through a sieve;
put the juice and the purée into an earthenware pan and boil for five
minutes, stirring all the time, then let it drain through a napkin
stretched out as for jelly straining; weigh all that remains on the
napkin, and for each pound of pulp allow one pound of sugar. Put the
sugar into a pan with half a pint of water, let it dissolve, and cook it
till it reaches 236° F., or the “small ball” (_i. e._, on dipping the
finger and thumb first into cold water and then into the syrup, and
again into cold water, the sugar from the fingers forms a small ball),
keeping it well skimmed; then add the tomato pulp and half a cupful of
red currant juice for every pound of the pulp.

Place on the fire and stir continuously till it reaches 220° F.; then
let the preserve cook for three minutes more and pot in the usual way.




                         MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES

               “_Cheerful looks make every dish a feast_”


                              ASPIC JELLY

 1½ ozs. (3 heaping tablespoonfuls) powdered gelatine
 1¾ pints (3½ cups) water or stock
 4 tablespoonfuls white vinegar
 4 tablespoonfuls tarragon vinegar
 1 sprig parsley
 2 bay leaves
 1 blade mace
 4 cloves
 12 whole white peppers
 1 inch cinnamon stick
 Rind and juice 1 lemon
 1 level teaspoonful salt
 1 small carrot
 1 small onion
 1 small turnip
 1 stalk celery
 6 drops kitchen bouquet
 Whites and shells of 2 eggs

Put the gelatine into a clean cold saucepan, add the water or stock,
then the vegetables, cleaned and cut into small pieces; add all the
other ingredients, and whisk over a gentle heat until boiling. Remove
the beater, allow the thick white scum to rise to the top of the pan,
draw to one side of the stove, cover, and allow to stand ten minutes.
Pour two quarts of boiling water through a jelly bag, then the jelly.
Turn the jelly into a wet earthenware mold and use as required when set.

Aspic jelly lends itself to a great variety of useful dishes. It is used
in cold entrées where the materials are molded in the jelly, which means
that the aspic must be beautifully clear and of firm consistence.


                             BOILED HOMINY

 ½ pint (1 cup) hominy grits
 2 pints (4 cups) boiling water
 Salt to taste

Have the water boiling in a fireproof dish, stir into it the hominy,
adding salt to taste. Cook slowly for three hours or longer, stirring
frequently. If the hominy is soaked overnight, one and a half hours
boiling in the morning will suffice.

Cook in the same manner.


                          CANDIED CRANBERRIES

 Cape Cod cranberries
 Sugar
 Water

For this recipe use the Cape Cod cranberries, half as much sugar as
berries, and half as much water as sugar. Wash and pick over the berries
and lay them in a deep casserole; put the sugar on the top like a crust,
and the water on the top of that.

Cook very slowly.

When they just come to boiling point, cover for just a few moments—not
long or the skins will burst—then uncover and simmer until tender. Take
up carefully and spread on oiled plates to dry.

These candied cranberries may be used in place of cherries for
decorating cakes or candies.


                              CHOUX PASTRY

 2 ozs. (2 heaping tablespoonfuls) butter
 ½ pint (1 cup) water
 4 large eggs
 ¼ teaspoonful salt
 ¼ lb. (1 cup) flour

Put the butter into a fireproof dish, add the water, bring to the
boiling point, quickly add the flour and salt, stir well with a wooden
spoon until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan, remove from the
fire, allow to cool, but not become cold; add the eggs, beating each one
in thoroughly.

Set away in a cool place for one hour.

Put into a forcing bag with a plain tube and force on to a greased
baking tin into small rounds; brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a
hot oven for half an hour.

When cold, split them open at one side and fill them with whipped cream
sweetened and flavored to taste.

The mixture may be forced in small pieces into a pan of smoking hot fat
and fried like doughnuts. They should then be sprinkled over with sugar.


                           CORN-MEAL SOUFFLÉ

 ½ pint (1 cup) corn meal
 1 pint (2 cups) hot milk
 ¼ teaspoonful salt
 5 eggs

Cook the corn meal, either yellow or white, in the hot milk in a
casserole until well thickened, stirring frequently; remove from the
fire, add the salt, then beat in the yolks of the eggs one at a time,
add the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in a moderate oven until
light and nicely browned—it takes about forty-five minutes.

Serve at once from the baking dish, either with butter or meat gravy.


                          MINCE MEAT FOR PIES

 1½ lbs. seeded raisins
 2 lbs. chopped apples
 1 lb. Sultana raisins
 1½ lbs. currants
 ½ lb. chopped citron peel
 ½ lb. chopped candied lemon peel
 ½ lb. chopped candied orange peel
 1½ lbs. (3 cups) sugar
 ½ lb. blanched chopped almonds
 1 teaspoonful salt
 1 lb. finely chopped suet
 3 oranges, grated rind and strained juice
 3 lemons, grated rind and strained juice
 1 tablespoonful powdered cinnamon
 1 tablespoonful grated nutmeg
 1 tablespoonful powdered mace
 1 tablespoonful ground cloves
 1 tablespoonful powdered allspice
 1 tablespoonful powdered ginger
 ½ pint (1 cup) sherry wine
 ½ pint (1 cup) best brandy

Put all these ingredients into a large earthenware jar, mix well, and
stir up before using. Keep well covered. The mince meat ought to be made
at least one month before required. The fruit should all be cleaned very
carefully.


                            OATMEAL PORRIDGE

 Oatmeal
 Water
 Salt

Put an earthenware dish on the stove, allow one cupful of water to each
person. When the water boils, sprinkle in the oatmeal with the left
hand, stirring briskly all the time. Use one handful of meal to each cup
of water; stir free from lumps. Let the oatmeal boil for a quarter of an
hour before adding salt to taste; cook the oatmeal for at least one
hour, stirring occasionally. If poured in plates, these should be
previously warmed. Serve with milk.

Any stewed fruit is also a nice accompaniment, and good for the health.

Another method is to mix the meal with cold water, stir steadily until
it boils, add salt as in former recipe, and cook also for one hour.

Serve in the same way.

Still another way. The night before it is wanted mix up the oatmeal with
milk, one handful of oatmeal to one cupful of cold milk, add a little
salt, pour into an earthenware jar, and let it soak all night. In the
morning set the jar in a pan of boiling water, and let it steam for
three hours, or longer if time permits.

When cooked this way serve with stewed figs.


                                 PASTRY

 ¾ lb. (3 cups) flour
 ½ lb. (1 cup) lard
 ¼ teaspoonful salt
 1 gill (½ cup) ice water

Mix the flour and salt together in an earthenware bowl, then mix in the
lard by cutting it in with a knife. Add the ice water, and mix as little
as possible. Roll the pastry out on a floured baking board.

It should be handled as little as possible.


                              PUFF PASTRY

 1 lb. (4 cups) flour
 1 lb. (2 cups) butter
 1 egg yolk
 1 tablespoonful lemon juice
 Cold water

Wash the butter in cold water and squeeze it in a floured towel into a
flat cake. Sift the flour into an earthenware basin, rub two heaping
tablespoonfuls of the butter finely into it. Beat up the yolk of the egg
with the lemon juice and a little cold water, add them gradually to the
flour and butter, making them into a firm paste. Roll out the paste into
a long strip, lay the butter on one end of it, wet the edge slightly,
and fold the paste over. Fasten the edges well together, turn round,
press with the rolling pin, and roll out lengthways; have the paste so
that the two open edges are parallel with yourself after folding it in
three. Roll from you and never from side to side, using gentle pressure.
Then fold in three. Now put the paste to cool for twenty minutes—the
friction will have heated it somewhat. Then arrange the paste with the
open ends in front of you and again roll out lengthways and fold in
three as before. This completes the second rolling.

Repeat for the third and fourth time, then put to cool for another
twenty minutes. After this, in like manner, give the fifth, sixth, and
seventh rollings, and again cool for twenty minutes. The paste is now
ready for the final rolling out.

Before giving the last two rollings sprinkle over it a few drops of
lemon juice; each time when rolling the pastry keep all the edges as
square as possible.


                              SUET PASTRY

 ½ lb. (2 cups) flour
 4 heaping tablespoonfuls chopped suet
 1 teaspoonful baking powder
 Cold water
 ¼ teaspoonful salt

Sift the flour, salt, and baking powder into an earthenware bowl, rub
the suet well into them, then make into a stiff paste with cold water,
adding it gradually.

This paste may be boiled for two hours in a cloth or mold, or rolled out
and used for fruit, sweet or savory puddings, or roly-polys.


                            TOAD IN THE HOLE

 ½ lb. (2 cups) flour
 ½ teaspoonful salt
 1 lb. link sausages
 2 eggs
 1½ pints (3 cups) milk

Sift the flour and salt into a basin; beat up the eggs well, and after
mixing them with the milk, pour gradually on the flour, beating it well
with a wooden spoon. When quite smooth, pour it into a well-buttered
fireproof dish; skin the sausages and lay them in the batter, and bake
in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour.

Pieces of apples, rhubarb, prunes, or pieces of cold meat or fish may be
substituted for the sausages.

The fruit requires a little sugar, and sugar must also be served along
with the pudding.


                       TO PEEL AND GRATE A LEMON

To peel a lemon for flavoring just remove the yellow skin with a sharp
knife, taking care to take none of the white pith.

To grate a lemon take a grater, and grate off the yellow part only, the
white being of no use for flavoring, besides being very indigestible.

A small brush is excellent for removing the rind from the grater.


                           TO BLANCH ALMONDS

Drop the almonds into hot water; allow it just to boil, then strain, and
remove the brown skins, drop the almonds into cold water until required,
so as to keep their color.


                        TO BLANCH PISTACHIO NUTS

Drop the nuts into hot water containing a little baking soda; allow the
water just to boil, strain, and remove the skins.


                       TO MAKE BROWN BREAD CRUMBS

Take the crusty part of some stale bread, put it into a moderate oven to
dry, and bake a golden brown shade; crush with a rolling pin or in a
mortar, pass through a fine sieve. These may be kept for a long time if
put into a jar or bottle and well covered.


                            WHEAT AU GRATIN

 ½ pint (1 cup) wheat
 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 4 heaping tablespoonfuls grated cheese
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) flour
 2 heaping tablespoonfuls (2 ozs.) butter
 Salt and pepper to taste

Pick over the wheat and wash it well; then soak it overnight in cold
water to cover. In the morning put it in a casserole and cook it till
tender, salting it during the last ten minutes of cooking. Drain it
well. Blend the butter and flour together in a saucepan over the fire,
add the milk gradually, and season nicely with salt and pepper; stir
till it boils for four minutes.

Put a layer of the sauce into a buttered fireproof dish, then put in
half of the wheat, another layer of sauce, half of the cheese, the
remaining wheat, sauce, and finally the cheese on the top.

Bake for ten minutes in a hot oven.


                           YORKSHIRE PUDDING

 1 pint (2 cups) milk
 3 eggs
 6 ozs. (6 heaping tablespoonfuls) flour
 3 tablespoonfuls of dripping
 ½ teaspoonful salt
 ½ teaspoonful baking powder

Sift the flour into an earthenware basin with the baking powder and the
salt, stir in the milk gradually, beat up the eggs, and add to the
batter when quite smooth; allow this to stand in a cool place for two
hours; melt the dripping in a casserole, pour in the batter, and bake in
a hot oven for half an hour.

Serve with roast beef.




                                 INDEX

 SOUPS                                                              PAGE

      Brown Soup with Forcemeat Balls                                 17

      Brown Stock                                                     18

      Cheese Soup with Savory Custard                                 19

      Cream of Barley Soup                                            20

      Cream of Salsify Soup                                           21

      Fish Soup                                                       22

      Fruit Soup                                                      22

      Gumbo Soup                                                      23

      Lentil Soup                                                     24

      Oyster Bisque                                                   20

      Oyster Bouillon                                                 25

      Potato Purée                                                    25

      Scotch Broth                                                    26

      Shrimp Chowder                                                  26

      Soup to Serve in Petites Marmites                               27

      Vegetable Soup                                                  28

      White Stock                                                     28


 FISH

      Baked Oysters                                                   30

      Cod à la Garonne                                                31

      Cold Mackerel, Vinaigrette                                      31

      Crab à la Carmen                                                32

      Curried Fish                                                    33

      Finnan Haddie                                                   33

      Fish Soufflé                                                    34

      Flounder au Gratin                                              35

      Haddock and Macaroni                                            35

      Haddock au Gratin                                               36

      Halibut Timbale                                                 37

      Lobster Newburg                                                 37

      Mackerel with Tomatoes                                          38

      Oyster Curry                                                    38

      Scallops en Casserole                                           39

      Stewed Eels                                                     40

      Stuffed Herrings                                                41

      Terrapin Stew                                                   41

      Trout with Potatoes                                             42


 POULTRY AND GAME

      Chicken en Casserole No. 1                                      44

      Chicken en Casserole No. 2                                      45

      Chicken with Olives                                             46

      Goose Deviled en Casserole                                      46

      Guinea Fowl en Casserole                                        47

      Jugged Hare                                                     48

      Quails en Casserole                                             49

      Rabbit en Casserole                                             50

      Ragout of Duck                                                  50

      Squabs en Casserole                                             51

      Squirrels en Casserole                                          52

      Venison en Casserole                                            53


 MEATS

      Baked Liver                                                     54

      Baked Virginia Ham                                              54

      Beef and Sausages                                               55

      Beef and Tomatoes                                               56

      Calf’s Liver à la Madrid                                        57

      Chilli Con Carni                                                57

      Ham en Casserole                                                58

      Hamburg Steak en Casserole                                      58

      Hungarian Goulash                                               59

      Irish Stew                                                      60

      Kidneys en Casserole                                            60

      Lamb en Casserole                                               61

      Mutton à la Verona                                              61

      Ox Tail en Casserole                                            62

      Ox Tongue en Casserole                                          63

      Pork en Casserole                                               64

      Steak en Casserole                                              65

      Steak and Kidney Pudding                                        65

      Sweetbreads en Casserole                                        66

      Swiss Steak                                                     67

      Veal and Ham Pie                                                68

      York Hot Pot                                                    68


 COLD MEATS

      Chicken au Gratin                                               70

      Chicken Ramequins                                               70

      Chopped Veal                                                    71

      Cottage Pie                                                     71

      Creamed Dried Beef with Macaroni                                73

      Macaroni Ragout                                                 72

      Mutton Hash                                                     73

      Pork Pie                                                        74

      Puffs of Meat                                                   74

      Réchauffé of Beef                                               75

      Soufflé of Veal                                                 75

      Surprise Potatoes                                               76

      Tongue Ramequins                                                76

      Tongue Stanley                                                  77

      Turkey en Casserole                                             77

      Veal Ramequins                                                  78


 VEGETABLES

      Asparagus au Gratin                                             79

      Baked Beans                                                     79

      Baked Cabbage                                                   80

      Baked Onions                                                    81

      Baked Parsnips                                                  81

      Beans with Onions                                               82

      Braised Onions                                                  82

      Browned Potatoes                                                82

      Brussels Sprouts with Cheese                                    83

      Candied Sweet Potatoes                                          83

      Carrots à la Pompadour                                          84

      Cauliflower au Gratin                                           84

      Colcannon                                                       85

      Corn Pudding                                                    85

      Curried Vegetables                                              86

      Egg-Plant au Gratin                                             86

      Escalloped Sweet Corn                                           87

      Lentils Creole                                                  87

      Mushrooms au Gratin                                             88

      Okra, Rice, and Tomatoes                                        89

      Peas en Casserole                                               89

      Potatoes au Gratin                                              89

      Potato Balls en Casserole                                       90

      Rice and Tomato Pie                                             90

      Salsify en Casserole                                            91

      Stewed Lettuce                                                  91

      Stuffed Peppers                                                 92

      Stuffed Potatoes                                                92

      Stuffed Tomatoes                                                93

      Turnips au Gratin                                               94


 SALADS

      Alligator Pear Salad                                            95

      American Salad                                                  95

      Artichoke Salad                                                 96

      Asparagus and Shrimp Salad                                      97

      Cherry Salad                                                    97

      Cucumber Salad                                                  97

      Endive and Grape fruit Salad                                    98

      Fruit Salad                                                     98

      Jardinière Salad                                                99

      Lettuce and Potato Salad                                        99

      Lettuce and Green Pepper Salad                                 100

      Lobster Salad                                                  100

      Red Cabbage and Celery Salad                                   101

      String Bean Salad                                              101

      Sweetbread Salad                                               101

      Watercress and Apple Salad                                     102


 PUDDINGS

      Apple Pudding                                                  103

      Apple Soufflé                                                  104

      Arrowroot Pudding                                              104

      Baked Apples                                                   105

      Baked Quinces                                                  105

      Bananas à la Patricia                                          106

      Barley Custard                                                 107

      Bread Pudding                                                  107

      Brown Betty                                                    108

      Chestnut Mold                                                  108

      Cherry Pudding                                                 109

      Chocolate Cream Pie                                            109

      Cocoanut Pie                                                   110

      Cocoanut Pudding                                               110

      Cream of Rice Pudding                                          111

      Date Pudding                                                   111

      Dried Apricots                                                 112

      Currant Batter Pudding                                         113

      Farina Pudding                                                 113

      Fig Pudding                                                    114

      French Pudding                                                 114

      Fruit Pudding                                                  115

      Ginger Pudding                                                 116

      Green-gage Puffs                                               117

      Monte Carlo Cherries                                           117

      Orange Meringue Pudding                                        118

      Parisian Pears                                                 118

      Peach Soufflé                                                  119

      Pear Dainty                                                    119

      Plum Pudding                                                   120

      Prune and Apple Tart                                           121

      Prune Pudding                                                  121

      Pumpkin Pie                                                    122

      Rhubarb Meringue                                               122

      Rice Pudding                                                   123

      Stewed Apricots with Custard                                   123

      Strawberry Batter Pudding                                      124

      Strawberry Custards                                            124

      Vanilla Custard                                                125

      Vermicelli Pudding                                             125

      Walnut Pudding                                                 126


 INVALID COOKERY

      Apple Purée                                                    127

      Barley Gruel                                                   128

      Beef Tea en Casserole                                          128

      Calf’s Sweetbreads                                             129

      Chicken Panade                                                 129

      Cold Lemon Pudding                                             130

      Friar’s Omelet                                                 130

      Invalid Pudding                                                131

      Jellied Fish                                                   131

      Milk Soup                                                      132

      Mulled Milk                                                    132

      Oyster Soup                                                    132

      Raspberry Soufflé                                              133

      Sago Gruel                                                     133

      Sago Jelly                                                     134

      Savory Beef Jelly                                              134

      Savory Custard                                                 135

      Tapioca Creams                                                 135

      Tripe Fricassée                                                136


 CHEESE

      Baked Cheese                                                   137

      Cheese and Bread                                               137

      Cheese Creams                                                  138

      Cheese and Rice                                                138

      Cheese with Noodles                                            139

      Cheese Appetizer                                               139

      Cheese Salad                                                   140

      Cheese Sandwiches                                              140

      Cheese Tartlets                                                140

      Cheese and Potatoes                                            141

      Cheese and Corn                                                141

      Cheese Fondue                                                  142

      Cheese Dainties                                                142

      Cheese Custards                                                143

      Cheese and Macaroni                                            143

      Cheese Pudding                                                 144

      Cheese Soufflés                                                144

      Cheese and Tomatoes                                            145

      Cheese Currant Cake                                            145

      Scalloped Cheese                                               146

      Welsh Rarebit                                                  146


 EGGS

      Curried Eggs                                                   147

      Eggs in Cocottes                                               147

      Egg Pudding                                                    148

      Egg Tartlets                                                   148

      Eggs in Tomatoes                                               149

      Eggs with Spinach                                              149

      Egg Soup                                                       150

      Eggs and Mushroom Ragout                                       151

      Eggs in Ramequins                                              151

      Eggs with Cream                                                152

      Eggs with Macaroni                                             152

      Egg and Potato Pie                                             153

      Eggs au Gratin                                                 154

      Eggs and Bacon                                                 154

      Golden Eggs                                                    155

      Scotch Woodcock                                                155

      Scrambled Eggs with Mushrooms                                  156

      Shrimp Eggs                                                    157

      Soufflé Omelet                                                 157

      Swiss Eggs                                                     158

      Venetian Eggs                                                  158


 SAUCES AND GRAVIES

      Arrowroot Sauce                                                159

      Béchamel Sauce                                                 159

      Brown Gravy                                                    160

      Chocolate Sauce                                                160

      Cucumber Sauce                                                 161

      Custard Sauce                                                  161

      Currant Sauce                                                  162

      Egg Sauce                                                      162

      Espagnole Sauce                                                163

      Hard Sauce                                                     163

      Hollandaise Sauce                                              164

      Horseradish Sauce                                              164

      Lemon Sauce                                                    164

      Mayonnaise Sauce                                               165

      Mushroom Gravy                                                 166

      Onion Sauce                                                    166

      Oyster Sauce                                                   167

      Parsley Sauce                                                  167

      Plum Sauce                                                     167

      Pistachio Sauce                                                168

      Sauce Tartare                                                  168

      Tomato Sauce                                                   169

      White Sauce                                                    169


 CAKES AND BREADS

      Apple Bread                                                    170

      Apple Sauce Cake                                               171

      Brandy Cake                                                    171

      Cheese Cake                                                    172

      Chocolate Cake                                                 172

      Cocoa Sponge Cake                                              173

      Coffee Bread                                                   173

      Corn Bread                                                     174

      Currant Cake                                                   174

      Date Cake                                                      175

      Dutch Apple Cake                                               175

      Fruit Cake                                                     176

      Fudge Cake                                                     176

      Hickory Nut Cake                                               177

      Imperial Cake                                                  177

      Mother’s Cake                                                  178

      Potato Cake                                                    178

      Soft Gingerbread                                               179

      Spice Cake                                                     179

      Raisin Bread                                                   180


 PICKLES

      Apple Relish                                                   181

      Chutney                                                        181

      Corn Relish                                                    182

      Cucumber Mangoes                                               182

      India Relish                                                   183

      Lemon Pickle                                                   184

      Lime Relish                                                    184

      Mixed Pickles                                                  185

      Piccalilli                                                     186

      Pickled Beets                                                  186

      Pickled Cherries                                               187

      Pickled Egg-plant                                              187

      Pickled Onions                                                 188

      Pickled Oysters                                                188

      Pickled Peaches                                                189

      Pickled Plums                                                  189

      Pickled Red Cabbage                                            190

      Pickled Walnuts                                                190

      Shallot Pickle                                                 191

      Tomato Chutney                                                 192


 PRESERVES

      Apple Jam                                                      193

      Black Currant Jelly                                            193

      Cranberry Preserve                                             194

      Currant Bar-le-duc                                             195

      Fig and Rhubarb Jam                                            195

      Ginger Pears                                                   196

      Grape Conserve                                                 196

      Green-gage Jam                                                 196

      Lemon Marmalade                                                197

      Preserved Huckleberries                                        198

      Preserved Carrots                                              198

      Prune Marmalade                                                199

      Pumpkin Preserve                                               199

      Quince Marmalade                                               200

      Raspberry Jam                                                  200

      Tomato Preserve                                                201


 MISCELLANEOUS

      Aspic Jelly                                                    202

      Boiled Hominy                                                  203

      Candied Cranberries                                            203

      Choux Pastry                                                   204

      Corn-meal Soufflé                                              204

      Forcemeat Balls                                                 18

      Mince Meat for Pies                                            205

      Oatmeal Porridge                                               206

      Pastry                                                         207

      Puff Pastry                                                    207

      Suet Pastry                                                    208

      Toad in the Hole                                               208

      To Peel and Grate a Lemon                                      209

      To Blanch Almonds                                              209

      To Blanch Pistachio Nuts                                       210

      To make Brown Bread Crumbs                                     210

      Wheat au Gratin                                                210

      Yorkshire Pudding                                              211

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          TRANSCRIBER’S NOTES


 1. Silently corrected typographical errors and variations in spelling.
 2. Archaic, non-standard, and uncertain spellings retained as printed.
 3. Enclosed italics font in _underscores_.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of How to Cook in Casserole Dishes, by 
Marion Harris Neil

